PREFACES, INTRODUCTIONS, ETC.

THE TRANSLATOR'S PREFACE.».""":"'

• . •*.*•'. '.

THE praise by which a translator attempts to advance the reputation of his original, is usually considered as an indirect claim to applause on his own account. Though he may not stand in the full lustre of his own panegyric, yet such are his connections with his author, that he receives it by reflection, and tacitly compliments himself at least for judgment in his choice.

Assurances on his part, however, seldom influence the approbation of the public, but frequently incur its contempt; for if he be so unfortunate as to fail in his promises, falsehood is added to swell the number of his other imperfections.



'Prefixed to The Memoirs of a Protestant, condemned to the Galleys of France, for his Religion. Written by himself. In two volumes. Translated from the original, just published at The Hague, by James Willington. London: Printed for R. Griffiths, at the Dunciad, in Paternoster-row; and E. Dilly, at the Rose and Crown, in the Poultry, 1758. 2 vols. 120. The original, entitled Memoires d'un Protestant, was published at Rotterdam in 1757. Willington was the name of one of Goldsmith's fellow-students in Dublin. (Prior, i. 353-4.)

S





Sensible of this truth, it is not expected to enhance the excellencies or palliate the faults of the succeeding Memoir. The public will scarce be influenced in their judgment by the obscure prefacer; and perhaps the work might rather suffer by his misplaced admiration. To confess a truth, he hardly knows how to introduce it to the public attention, and even to procure it a reading, among the multiplicity of modern publications.

Perhaps what he thinks its excellencies, may be considered as defects: what he hopes may give it popularity, will contribute to assign it to neglect. Thus, for instance, it cannot be recommended as a grateful entertainment to the numerous readers of reigning romance, as it is strictly true. No events are here to astonish; no unexpected incidents to surprise; no such high-finished pictures, as captivate the imagination and have made fiction fashionable. Our reader must be content with the simple exhibition of truth, and consequently of nature; he must be satisfied to see vice triumphant and virtue in distress; to see men punished or rewarded, not as his wishes, but as Providence has thought proper to direct; for all here wears the face of sincerity.

The author, indeed, who is still alive, and known to numbers not only in Holland but London, has, from prudential motives, thought proper to suppress his name; and the same reasons that have induced him to conceal it, equally influence the translator.





His keeping himself concealed may probably, to some, appear suspicious; yet let it be considered, that were this the work of fiction, nothing could have been easier than to invent fictitious names also; a practice almost universally adopted by those who are indebted to invention alone for their materials. But such the author chose to imitate in nothing; and his conduct in the present case is a proof of the authenticity of his performance.

As there are little hopes of pleasing those who delight in improbabilities, so there is another class of readers whom it is as little expected to satisfy. Those who upon hearing that the author suffered persecution with constancy, may expect also to find him talk upon all occasions like our enthusiasts; who attach formal phrase and disgusting ejaculation to their ideas of religion; and imagine that every part of history which serves to amuse, is certainly an infringement on piety. Such he cannot expect to have for his admirers; so that, between the lovers of an idle tale and the partisans of cant and formality, the translator almost trembles for his author's reception.

As he has expressed his fears, permit him to speak his hopes also: and if there be any reader who can for a moment lay aside romance for history; who can prefer a picture taken from nature to the more glaring colourings of fancy: if there be any who can be pleased with a narrative inspired by truth, and perhaps executed with modesty; if we cannot deserve the approbation of such readers, we shall contentedly acquiesce in their censure.





The present Memoir commences where the historians of those times discontinue their accounts. It carries on the relation of a national persecution, almost too shocking for belief, though too well attested not to be a lasting monument of disgrace to humanity.

Louis XIV. of France, induced by some pretended conversions, and incited by those who took care of the Royal conscience, revoked the Edict of Nantes. This charter was settled by Henry IV., and was the great bulwark of Protestant security against ecclesiastical persecution. The revocation of this edict gave Popery a full power to tyrannise; and its unpitying tribunals were erected over all the kingdom. The miseries of that period are pathetically described, even by their own historians. Protestants were dragged from their families; exposed to all the insults of unguided zeal; emaciated in dungeons; denied the consolation of friendship; brought to the rack; turning their eyes to take a last farewell of their children, but only meeting an odious priest; the executioner, bathed in the blood of their expiring friends, chiding their delay; their carcasses blackening in the sun, or exposed to rot on dunghills!

Such was a part of the accumulated miseries of the times; while Louis, surnamed the Great, was feasting at Versailles, fed with the incense of flattery, or sunk in the lewd embraces of a prostitute! Can an Englishman hear this, and not burn with indignation against those foes to religion, to liberty, and his country? And should not every attempt to promote this generous indignation meet at least indulgence, though it should not deserve applause. Could the present performance teach one individual to value his religion, by contrasting it with the furious spirit of Popery; could it contribute to make him enamoured with liberty, by showing their unhappy situation, whose possessions are held by so precarious a tenure as tyrannical caprice; could it promote his zeal in the cause of humanity, or give him a wish to imitate the virtues of the sufferer, or redress the injuries of oppression; then, indeed, the author will not have wrote in vain. A convert of this kind is worth a thousand admirers; and to attain these ends was probably his design; and not to gratify idle curiosity, or erect himself into the minute hero of his own Memoir.





PREFACE AND INTRODUCTION TO THE HISTORY OF THE SEVEN YEARS' WAR»

PREFACE

IN whatever light we regard the present war which has disturbed all Europe, we shall find it the most important of any recorded in modern history. Whether we consider the power of the nations at variance, the number of the forces employed, or the skill of the generals conducting, we shall equally find matter for improvement and admiration. We shall see small kingdoms forced by the prudence of one man into an astonishing degree of power, and extensive countries scarcely able to support their own rights and repel the invader.

But whatever these contentions may be thought of by others, they will never be regarded by Britons, but as instances of her power, her bravery, and her successes. In this war England will appear in greater splendour than in any period of the most boasted antiquity; it will be seen to poise the fates of Europe, and bring its most potent and most ambitious states into the lowest degree of humiliation. This is a glory which should excite every lover of his country to celebrate as well as to share in.



'This Preface and Introduction, (included in Goldsmith's Works for the first time in 1837), form the Preface and Introduction to a detail of the events of the war commencing in 1757, down to the period in which they were written; which, from the internal evidence, would seem to be 1761. That they were ever published is uncertain. The original MS. belonged to Isaac Reed, who has written on the blank leaf—"This MS. is one of the productions of, and in the handwriting of, Dr. Goldsmith. It was given to me by Mr. Steevens, who received it from Hamilton, the printer." On the sale of Reed's collection, it passed into the hands of Mr. Heber, by whom it was lent to Mr. Prior.





The desolation of war, the insolent severity of victors, and the servitude of those who happen to be overcome, have been often the topics of declamatory complaint, and employed the reasoner as well as the rhetorician; but still I should doubt whether even wars have not their benefits; whether they do not serve, as motion to waters, to depurate states of all, or a great number of vices, contracted by long habits of peace. If we attentively examine the records of history, we shall ever find that long indolence in any country was only productive of mischief; and that those very arts which were brought to perfection in peace often serve to introduce new vices with new luxury. The Roman state stood firm until Italy had no longer any enemies to fear; contented with enjoying the fruits of victory they no more desired to obtain it; their wars were carried on by mercenary soldiers, their armies were levied in distant provinces, and those very provinces at length became their masters.





But to what purpose is it to cite ancient history, when we have so recent and so near an instance in the Dutch? That people, once brave, enthusiasts in the cause of freedom, and able to make their state formidable to their neighbours, are, by a long continuance of peace, divided into faction, set upon private interest, and neither able nor willing to usurp its rights or revenge oppression. This may serve as a memorable instance of what may be the result of a total inattention to war, and an utter extirpation of martial ardour. Insulted by the French, threatened by the English, and almost universally despised by the rest of Europe—how unlike the brave peasants their ancestors, who spread terror into either India, and always declared themselves the allies of those who drew the sword in defence of freedom! ■

The friendship between the English and the Dutch was at first conceived to be inseparable; they were termed, in the style of politicians, faithful friends, natural allies, Protestant confederates, and by many other names of national endearment. Both had the same interest as opposed to France, and some resemblance of religion as opposed to Popery; yet these were but slight ties with a nation whose only views were commerce. A rivalry in that will serve to destroy with them every connection. No merely mercantile man or mercantile nation has any friendship but for money; and an alliance between them will last no longer than their common safety or common profit is endangered; -jio longer than they have an enemy ready to deprive them of more than they can be able to steal from each other.



1 "Heavens! how unlike their Belgic sires of old!

Rough, poor, content, ungovernably bold," etc.



The Traveller.

h-..





A long continuance of property in the same channel is also very prejudicial to a nation. In such a state, emulation is in some measure destroyed, fortune seems to stand still with those who are already in possession of it; they who are rich have no need of an exertion of their abilities in order to preserve their wealth, and the poor must rest in hopeless indigence: but war gives a circulation to the wealth of a nation, the poor have many opportunities of bettering their fortune, and the rich must labour in order to support the necessary expenses required in defraying it. Thus all are in action; and emulative industry is the parent of every national virtue.

A long continuance of peace in England was never productive of advantageous consequences; upon such occasions, we have ever seen her divided into factions, her senates becoming venal, and her ministers even avowing corruption. But when a foreign enemy appears, private animosities cease, factions are forgotten, and party rage is united against the common foe. I am not an advocate for war; but it were happy if mankind did not require such a scourge to keep them within those bounds which they ought to observe, with respect to their country and themselves. It is not likely, however, the English should relax into the abject state of debility of a neighbouring nation; they will ever have cause of distrust while France continues to cherish views of ambition— a nation that seems the enemy of Britain by nature. Different in religion, government, and disposition, it is almost impossible they can ever be thoroughly reconciled; and perhaps this rivalry will continue to preserve them both in circumstances of vigour and power, longer than any other nations recorded in history; since, from the situation of each country, it does not seem easy to conceive how the one will ever be able to oppress the other.





The system of politics at present pursued by the English may properly be said to have taken rise in the reign of Queen Elizabeth. At this time the Protestant religion was established, which then allied us to those countries who embraced the Reformation, and made all the Popish powers our enemies. A habit of politics once contracted is seldom discontinued: thus, those connections which were at first made from religious motives, were still observed when religion was out of the question. The English began in the same reign to extend their trade, by which it became necessary to watch the commercial progress of their neighbours, and to hinder their own traffic from being impaired by too great an increase of that of their rivals. They then likewise settled colonies in America, which was become the great scene of European ambition; for, seeing with what treasures the Spaniards were annually enriched from Mexico and Peru, every nation imagined that an American conquest, or plantation, would pour the same quantity of riches into the mother country. This produced a large extent of very distant dominions, the advantage or incumbrance of which was not at this time foreseen. Every state, however, concluded itself more powerful as its dominions were enlarged.





The discoveries of new regions, which were then every day made, the advantages of remote traffic, and, consequently, the desire of long voyages, produced in a few years a great multiplication of shipping. The sea came to be considered as the element of wealth; and by degrees a new kind of sovereignty arose, called naval dominion. As the chief trade of the world, so the chief maritime power was in the hands of the Spaniards and Portuguese, who, by a compact to which the consent of other princes was not asked, had divided the newly discovered countries between them; but the crown of Portugal having fallen to the King of Spain, or being seized by him, he was master of the ships of the two nations, with which he kept all the coasts of Europe in alarm, till the Armada which he had raised at a vast expense for the conquest of England was destroyed; which put a stop, and almost an end, to the naval power of the Spaniards.





At this time the Dutch, oppressed by the Spaniards and fearing yet greater evils than they felt, resolved no longer to endure the insolence of their masters, and after a struggle, in which they were assisted by the money and forces of England, erected an independent and at that time powerful commonwealth. When the inhabitants of the Low Countries had formed their system of government, and some remission from the war gave them leisure to form schemes of future prosperity, they easily perceived that, as their territories were narrow and their numbers few, they could preserve themselves only by wealth, and that this wealth was to be acquired only by commerce. From this necessity, so justly estimated, arose a plan of commerce, which was for many years prosecuted with industry and success, perhaps never seen in the world before. By this, the poor tenants of mud-walled villages and impassable marshes erected themselves into high and mighty states; who put the greatest monarchs at defiance, whose alliance was courted by the proudest, and whose power dreaded by the fiercest nations. By the establishment of this state, England saw a new ally, but at the same time a new rival.

At this time, which seems to be the period destined for the change of the face of Europe, France began to rise into power; and instead of dreading the insults and invasions of England (as was formerly the case), she was not only able to maintain her own territories, but prepared on all occasions to invade others—dead to every sense of liberty herself, yet disposed to deprive all others who possessed it.





Such was the state of England and its neighbours, when Elizabeth left the crown to James of Scotland. The union of the two kingdoms happened at a very critical juncture. Had England and Scotland continued separate kingdoms when France was established in the full possession of her newly acquired power, the Scots, upon every instigation of the French court, would have raised an army with the money of France, and harassed England with an invasion, in which they would have thought themselves successful, whatever numbers they might have left behind them. To a people warlike and indigent, an incursion into a rich country is never hurtful. The pay of France, and the plunder of the northern counties, would always have tempted them to hazard their lives; and England would have been subject to continual alarms, from ambition on one side and avarice on the other.

This trouble, however, we escaped, by the accession of King James; but it is uncertain whether his natural disposition did not injure us more than this accidental good-fortune benefited us. He was a man of some speculative knowledge, but no practical wisdom; he was unable to discern the true interest of himself, his kingdom, and his posterity, but sacrificed it upon all occasions to his present pleasure or his present ease; so

Yol. ix—a .





conscious of his own knowledge and abilities, that he would not suffer a minister to govern, and yet so very inattentive or so timorous, that he was unable to govern himself. With such dispositions, James calmly saw the Dutch invade our commerce; the French grew every day stronger and stronger, and the Protestant interest, of which he boasted himself the head, was oppressed on every side. James, however, took care to be flattered at home, and was neither angry nor ashamed at the figure he made, and at the jests thrown out against him in other countries. England, therefore, grew weaker, or, what amounts to the same thing, saw her neighbours grow stronger, without receiving proportionable additions to her own power. Not that the mischief was so great as is generally conceived or represented; for to the attentive it will appear, that the wealth of this nation was at that period considerably increased, though that of the crown was less. Our reputation for war was impaired; but commerce seems to have been carried on with great industry and vigour, and nothing was wanting but a generous spirit of resentment, or rather self-defence. The inclination to plant colonies in America still continued; and this being the only project in which men of adventure and enterprise could exert their qualities in a pacific reign, multitudes who were discontented with their condition in their native country—and such multitudes there will always be—sought relief, or at least change, in the regions of America, where they settled on the northern part of the continent, at a distance from the Spaniards—at that time almost the only nation that had power or will to obstruct us.





Such was the condition of this country at the accession of Charles I. During a reign so turbulent, it was not to be expected that commerce could flourish; wherefore, while the English were, during these unhappy times, embroiled among themselves, the power of France and Holland was every day increasing. The Dutch had overcome the difficulties of their infant commonwealth, and, as they still retained their vigour and industry, every day increased in riches and power—the attendant of well-regulated opulence. They extended their traffic, and had not yet admitted luxury; so that they had the means and the will to accumulate wealth, without any incitement to spend it. The French, who wanted nothing to make them powerful but a prudent regulation of their revenues and a proper use of their advantages, by the successive care of skilful ministers, became every day stronger and more and more conscious of their strength. They turned their thoughts to traffic and navigation, and seemed, like other nations, sensible of the advantages of an American colony.

All the fruitful and valuable parts of the western world were already either occupied or claimed, and nothing remained for France but what other navigators had thought unworthy of their notice:





she was contented, therefore, to fix upon Canada, a desolate northern country, as yet claimed by no other power; for she was not yet arrived at that pitch of influence as to seize what the neighbouring powers had already appropriated.

When the Parliament of England had at length prevailed over the King, the interests of the two commonwealths of England and Holland appeared to be opposite, and the new government declared war against the Dutch. In this contest was exerted the utmost powers of the two nations, and the Dutch were finally defeated, yet not with such evidence of superiority as left us much reason to boast of our victory; they were obliged, however, to solicit peace, which was granted them on easy conditions, and Cromwell, who was now possessed of the supreme power, was left at leisure to pursue other designs. The European powers had not yet ceased to look with envy on the Spanish acquisitions in America, and therefore Cromwell thought that if he gained any part of those celebrated regions, he should exalt his own reputation and enrich the country. He therefore quarrelled with the Spaniards upon such pretences as were only the result of an inclination for war, and sent Penn and Venables into the western seas. They first landed in Hispaniola, whence they were driven off with no great reputation to themselves; and that they might not return without having done something, they afterwards invaded Jamaica, where they found less resistance, and obtained that island, which was afterwards consigned to us, being probably of little value to the Spaniards, but which to us is the source of great wealth, and a retreat for the discontented at home.





The endeavour to distress Spain was at this time an error in the politics of Cromwell. They had for more than half a century fallen from their pristine greatness, while France seemed rising upon her ruins. To distress them, therefore, was the only way to increase the power of France; but our own troubles gave us little time to look upon the continent, nor did we consider that, of two monarchs, neither of which could be long our friend, it was our interest to have the weaker near us; or, that if a war should happen, Spain, however wealthy or strong in herself, was, by the dispersion of her territories, more obnoxious to the attacks of a naval power, and consequently, had more to fear, and less power to injure.

During this time, however, our colonies, which were less disturbed by our commotions than the mother country, naturally increased: it is probable that many who were unhappy at home took shelter in those remote regions, where, for the sake of inviting greater numbers, every one was permitted to live and think in their own way. The French settlement, in the mean time, went slowly forward; too inconsiderable to raise any jealousy, and too weak to attempt any encroachments.

During the reign of Charles II. the power of France was every day increasing; and as he never disturbed himself with remote consequences, he saw the progress of her arms and the extension of her dominions with very little uneasiness. He was, indeed, sometimes driven by the prevailing faction into confederacies against her; but, as he probably had a secret prepossession in her favour, he never persevered long in acting against her, nor ever acted with much vigour; so that by bis feeble resistance, he rather raised her confidence than obstructed her designs.





But that we may not condemn other countries as wanting perseverance or wisdom, who took no such large strides to establish commerce and navigation as France, it must be considered, that their ministers had a power of acting, which freer governments do not allow. They could enforce all their orders by the power of an absolute monarch, and compel individuals to sacrifice their private profits for the public good; they could make one understanding preside over many hands, and remove difficulties by quick and violent expedients. Where no man thinks himself under any obligation to submit to another, and, instead of cooperating in one great scheme, every one hastens through by-paths of private profit, no great change can suddenly be made; nor is superior knowledge of much effect, where every man resolves to use his own eyes and his own judgment, and every one applauds himself only in proportion as he becomes richer than his neighbour.

Colonies are always the effects and the causes also of navigation. They who visit many countries will be always inclined to settle in some; and these settlements once made must keep a perpetual correspondence with the original country to which they are subject, and on which they depend for protection when in danger, and for supplies when in necessity. So that a country once discovered must always find employment for shipping, more certainly than any foreign commerce which, depending on casualties, it is in the power of the nations so traded to, to suppress. A trade to colonies can never be much impaired, being in reality only an intercourse between distant provinces of the same empire, from which intruders are easily excluded; likewise the interest and affection of the corresponding parties, however distant, is still the same.





Such is the fate of England and France, that the colonies of each country are not less contiguous than the mother countries are to each other; so that the least disagreement even in the most distant region—and such disagreements must always be—must more or less affect the countries of Europe, and they will be most powerful who are capable of giving those distant dependants the most speedy relief.

We live in a country where at length our interests and our liberties seem to be understood by the people, and not infringed upon by the great; the advantages of our colonies, therefore, must be considered to be the same with our own. It is different with our enemies; they are not permitted to see their own interests, or if they do, they are obliged to act in conformity with the will of others. The time is now come, in which every Englishman expects to be informed of the national affairs, because he himself is immediately concerned in their carrying on. That is a part of his liberty; it ensures his certainty of that liberty, and he has a right to be gratified in his expectation. Whatever may be urged by ministers or their dependants concerning unbounded confidence in our governors, or of the presumption of prying with profane eyes into the recesses of policy, yet surely it will be always proper to disentangle corruption and illustrate obscurity; to show by what causes every event was produced, and in what effects it is likely to terminate; to show whence happiness or calamity is derived, and from whence it may be expected; and honestly to lay before the people what enquiry can gather of the past, and conjecture can estimate of the future.





Productions of this nature, which promise to instruct or amuse the reader, are already so numerous, that the writer of the present History finds himself under the necessity of informing the reader in what he differs from his rivals, in order to solicit public attention. True it is, that promises made by undertakers imply somewhat of demerit in their performance; every man thinks himself at liberty to deride them, and yet every man expects that he who offers himself a candidate to the public should name his pretensions.

The reader is here offered a regular connected history of the present war, and the motives previous to it, which he has hitherto seen only in the desultory and partial accounts of the papers of the month or the day. The facts are related with simplicity, and examined with candour, stripped of all the rancour, or the blind applause lavished without judgment or discretion by diurnal compilers, those echoes of the vulgar. He will probably see many things stated in lights which had before escaped him, and many anecdotes of persons and things with which he was before unacquainted. The materials are not collected from newspapers, unless when more authentic information could not be found. I have neither acted the part of a flatterer nor a satirist; for there are few things that deserve praise, and fewer still that deserve censure; as men are oftener fools than knaves, and act wrong from want of skill rather than through corruption. Whether I have done justice to public merit, or drawn private worth from obscurity, the reader must determine. In a word, I have some expectations from his judgment and skill, but still more from his candour and indulgence.





INTRODUCTION

Chapter I.—Of England

It has been remarked by all writers of the Continent who have occasion to mention the English, that they are the proudest people upon earth. I shall not take upon me to determine whether this pride proceeds from the superior liberty of our government, or whether the freedom of our constitution proceeds from the prevalence of this disposition: certain it is, that though other countries may have more popularity in their constitution, not one is possessed of so much intrinsic liberty. It is this which is regarded as the Englishman's birthright; this gives him a power of examining into the conduct of his governors, and of considering himself as a part of the legislature, in however subordinate a situation. As the Briton is reckoned to have greater freedom than the inhabitant under any government in Europe, so his country is allowed to be richer, if we take in the products of the soil and the commodities imported, than any other. From this combination of liberty and property results what is generally called "the good of our country." This is an expression used by many; yet few properly understand in what it consists, since men generally regard that to be their country's good, which is correspondent with their own connection, or which lies nearest to their limited views. Thus, the merchant shall regard the welfare of his country as consisting only in commerce, the soldier in war, the politician in well guaranteed treaties, and the land-holder in a freedom from taxes; the one clamours against armies and continental connections, the other against luxury and the effeminating arts of peace; a third desires the prosecution of vigorous measures, and a fourth clamours for a change of every governing minister, who is the supposed instrument of taxation. From this opposition of interests and sentiments, however, results a real advantage, and as in mechanics a multiplicity of opposite attractions is equivalent to absolute rest, so this diversity in government produces tranquil security.





The first order of our politicians are those who still preserve the maxims of our patriots of the beginning of the last century. They place the true interest of the nation in keeping our affairs as distinct as possible from those of the Continent, as our country is removed from it by nature—which, by surrounding it with the sea, seems to have made it a world of itself. We are, say they, only to protect our commerce, and every other advantage will necessarily follow. It must be confessed that many plausible things have been advanced, as well as great authorities alleged, in support of this doctrine; but whatever truth there might have been in it a century ago, it has little, however, to do with the present state of affairs. It will be proper, however, to examine it, to perceive what influence such an opinion ought to have in the conduct of our affairs.

The expeditions made by our ancient princes, for the maintenance of the countries they possessed in France, or in support of their claim to that crown, might very probably impoverish this nation; and how much soever their success might enlarge the power, or exalt the glory of those raonarchs, they might be far enough from being useful to their subjects. Notwithstanding what has been said, it is possible they might also be in some measure necessary, as our constitution then stood. France might serve as a drain, to carry off the peccant humours in the political constitution at home; and we shall have the more reason to be of that opinion, if we consider that such of our princes were always most popular at home, as made themselves renowned for their victories abroad; and that such as pursued a contrary conduct were very seldom free from domestic insurrections, or foreign invasions. The figure that Great Britain makes at present in Europe, arises from her being in a situation very different from that of times past; our present greatness is owing to maxims very different from that of neglecting everything that passes without the bounds of our own island. The wise Queen Elizabeth, who laid the foundation of that wealth and power which we now possess, acted upon quite different principles, and was so far from disregarding foreign affairs, that it will be found they never were better managed or understood than in her time. She it was that deterred the Spaniards from their views of universal empire, not barely by providing for the security of her dominions at home, but by employing money and men to occupy them with perpetual diversions abroad. She prevented France from becoming a province of Spain, which must have been fatal to the liberties of Europe; and she afforded that assistance to the estate of the United Provinces, that enabled them to become an independent republic, which has contributed in succeeding times to assist in the leagues formed against the growing power and ambitious designs of France.





At that time, continental connections were thought necessary; how much more should they be so at present, when our colonies are so numerous, our commerce so extensive, and our trade so much in the power of potent neighbours! Were any single power to usurp a larger dominion on the continent than they at present possess, what certainty would England have of continuing her power at sea? What security could she have for her colonies abroad? Add to this, the people relying only on commerce for support, may in the end be fatally mistaken. The nations to whom a trade is at present beneficial, may, in the end, be prevailed upon to carry on that traffic themselves: revolutions may happen in their governments, and several other accidents may intervene, either to obstruct commerce or to turn its currents another way. Upon such a failure, the nation which has no other support, no intrinsic strength, nor well regulated alliances, must necessarily be a prey to every invader: elated with all the pride of former wealth, yet enfeebled by all the misery of present distress; fancying itself strong, but actually weak—such a nation may and will engage in wars which will at length turn to its own ruin. Venice and Antwerp may serve as instances of the truth of an assertion which seems self-evident, without the assistance of history to confirm it.





The expediency of continental connections being shown, it will be proper, in the next place, to consider the most natural of those connections which Great Britain should cultivate; what countries are most likely to be of service to her and to posterity, and what will probably be the consequence of her alliances already contracted. It is almost unnecessary to mention, that whatever promotes our wealth and secures our liberties, is conducive to the good of the country; and whatever weakens, impairs, or circumscribes either, is repugnant thereto. We may easily, considering things in this light, derive from thence a true notion of the interests of Great Britain with respect to the others of Europe, and be able to judge when the interest is really pursued, and when it is either neglected or abandoned.

The first point which our interest demands, is the maintaining others in their rights, and to support the independence of the other powers of Europe; because an accumulation of power in any one potentate, naturally diminishes the inhabitants of the country put under subjection; it extinguishes industry and impoverishes them, and consequently must be detrimental to us, whose wealth is, in some measure, derived by commerce from those countries oppressed by another's power. Besides, inordinate power upon land may, in time, produce an equal degree of naval strength; and a rivalry there would be inevitably fatal.





Another point is the stipulating with foreign nations proper terms of security, indulgence, and respect for our subjects, and for the effects which, from time to time, they shall carry into those countries; in return for which, we must covenant on our parts to perform what may be thought reasonable. When these kind of alliances are made with proper deliberation, they become binding to us in the most solemn manner, and we are obliged to fulfil them punctually; so that whatever different form appearances may wear, the true interest of Great Britain is always to comply exactly with her treaties. A third rule is to resent wrongs done us vigorously, and without delay, more especially where it is in our power to do it by employing our naval strength; as in such a case it redresses the present injury, raises our reputation for the future, and employs that force which might be enfeebled by long habitudes of peace. We ought, likewise, to assist any nation that is unjustly attacked, or in danger of oppression, not only from the motives already assigned, but in order to testify our love of freedom, to show that we are not only ready to assert, with respect to ourselves, the natural prerogatives of mankind, but vindicate the privileges of others.

Then there still remains another demand we have from foreign powers; viz., the same protection from them that we afford to others, and a reciprocal intercourse of good offices; for instance, it is expected that no foreign power professing friendship with England, will give to others the title or ensigns or royalty contrary to what the body of this nation have established by law. This point our liberty demands to be complied with, and on this Britons should ever insist.





These rules constantly attended to, are sufficient to keep us upon good terms with all the world, and to make it the interest of every potentate and state of Europe to court and to respect our friendship; which should never be venal, but given with the generosity of a people too rich to receive rewards, and too brave to desert the oppressed. If these rules should at any time be incompatible with private interest (as no doubt they often will), the happiness of individuals, or any private body of men, should ever be sacrificed to public advantage, and a less immediate good to one greater, likely to accrue to posterity.

It appears in some measure from our history, and much more from our records, that we have always had a olose connection with the northern powers. Our old treaties with Sweden, Denmark, and Poland confirm this, and our alliances with Russia seem older than those contracted with most other powers. We have, as occasion required, acted either as mediators or allies, in favour of all those powers. The Swedes in particular have been frequently indebted to us for assistance; and in the last century they detached themselves, in great measure, from the interest of France, for the sake of our friendship; which was a measure beneficial to all Europe. Their friendship must ever be more useful to us than ours is to them; as it must, in general, with all those countries from whence we have materials for employing industry at home, and commodities which we may manufacture for foreign markets. Whatever wars, then, they carry on among themselves; whatever alliances they contract, or friendships they experience, it is our interest to take no part that may embroil us with either. With them, we can always act a neutral part, unaffected by their jealousies, and unendangered by their most violent debates. From their situation and climate, from the nature of the people and barrenness of their soil, it is impossible they should ever be able to rival us in commerce; it is our business, therefore, rather to cherish than repress those northern nations, since even if they should at any time grow too powerful by land, there is a wide extended frontier, not less than the greatest part of Europe, between us. But this is a change not likely to happen; at least, within the compass of human foresight.





The next natural connection—by which I mean such connections as are prejudicial to neither party—is with Italy. Notwithstanding the remote situation of this country, we have hitherto shown a just and laudable regard to its interests; in truth, distance is a consideration of small conse

VOL. IX—3





quence, especially to a maritime power. Our commerce in the Mediterranean and Levant is of the utmost importance, and we cannot but be sensible, that whatever alterations may have been made in Italy have affected our commerce also in a high degree; so that whatever steps we have taken, either during the continuance of peace by negotiations, or in time of war by supporting the only prince in Italy who declared for the common cause, and was true to his own interests, which were likewise ours, were right and just measures, and have left those impressions which will never be effaced by any arts or intrigues; whatever may be given out, to serve their own purposes, by those who have an interest in pursuing contrary measures.

Spain is next to be considered; with which crown our affairs have a long time been in a very perplexed situation, notwithstanding that it is generally thought the Spanish ministers have such true notions of their own interests, as never to be willing to give any cause of jealousy to the crown of England. They have long been sinking in the estimation of the rest of the powers of Europe; it is certainly, therefore, their interest to stand neuter in the controversies of other potentates, but at the same time to infuse such jealousies into the powers with whom they might desire to appear formidable, as to make their enmity dreaded, at the same time that they may be courted for their friendship by the opposite party. Without all doubt, it is our interest to live in a perfect correspondence with that court: such measures have been long since pursued, and no pains have been spared that are requisite to remove all jealousies and discontents on both sides. The peace of Aix-la-Chapelle was ineffectual for this purpose; and it is owing to the address of our ministers since that time, that those differences have been concluded in such a manner as to prevent at least any colour for beginning a new war. It is, however, from future negotiations, when Great Britain is more unemployed, and consequently at leisure for the inspection of minute matters, that we are to hope an absolute conclusion and adjustment of the terms of friendship to be observed by both nations. It is true, delays are disagreeable; but they are sometimes necessary, and at present to demand abrupt explanations might be attended with consequences repugnant to our mutual interests. At a proper time, it is to be hoped that each nation will go to the bottom of their grievances, that succeeding ministers may have a full, explicit, and well concerted treaty for their guide, upon which the subjects of both crowns may rely, without ambiguities to perplex, or any other colour for collusive evasion.





We have long lived in a state of the utmost friendship with the crown of Portugal. The subjects of each country carry on a very extensive traffic to their mutual advantage; we have had, till very lately, all the benefits and advantages that the most sanguine avarice could expect, in favour of our merchants; and if there happen to be at present some little discontents, it is to be hoped that they will be redressed upon the proper remonstrance. The Portuguese have always been considered, and deserve the appellation of, our faithful friends and allies. These have been the rules of behaviour between both courts in times of perfect tranquillity, and when nothing farther was necessary to evince the cordiality of esteem on both sides. But when a difference arose between them and their neighbours of Spain, our fleets were ready to assist them; when, from the unforeseen stroke of Providence, their capital was laid in ruins, our treasures were generously employed in their relief. Such are the connections which at first blush appear convenient to both parties, and are the natural result of our commercial views and interests. In our connection with these, liberty is out of the consideration; since that can be impaired neither by the enmity nor the friendship of the powers of which I have been speaking. With those we consider ourselves only as a commercial nation; they have but a small influence on our politics, since that part of them which affects our wealth alone is concerned; but there are other nations of Europe with whom we contend, not only for riches but for freedom. To establish both, we cultivate their alliance or form combinations against them; we may, when at war with





these, in a literal sense be said, to contend pro arts et focis, for all that is valuable or all we regard as such. The powers I refer to are France, Germany, Prussia, and Holland. They and Great Britain may be said properly to be the governing nations of the republic of Europe. In their hands lies the balance of power; which is kept in equipoise, perhaps not less by their wars than their treaties. By the accretion of power in the house of Brandenburgh, and the diminution of that of the United Provinces, have arisen a new system of policy and new cause for contention, which will, probably, like other hostile commotions which have of late disturbed the face of Europe, leave each of the belligerent powers in a similar state to that in which they began the war.

But, to take a more exact view of these countries, let us examine their political views and connections separately, and endeavour to investigate the wishes and the fears of each; survey their past conduct as far as it influences their present, and conjecture what may be the result of their present views and operations.

Chapter II.—Of France

It is generally agreed upon, that the power of the kings of France was anciently restrained, not only within narrower bounds than at present, but that in reality they were as much limited as any monarchs could be. But still they had an extensive frontier to defend, and aspiring neighbours, who at that time aimed at universal monarchy; this obliged the French kings to keep on foot a large standing army, which at once preserved the inhabitants from the incursions of their enemies and gained their kings a vast degree of popularity among the vulgar, who are capable of perceiving no other but that of a conqueror. By degrees, however, these armies which were at first levied for the protection of the subject, became, in the hands of ambitious monarchs, the means of oppressing them; so that in proportion as France became more formidable to her enemies, her subjects lost their freedom.





From this arose in the kingdom two separate interests, that of the king, and that of the people. The views the court proposes to itself are absolute power in the monarch, and unbounded dominion over its neighbours. These at first sight appear very different from, or to speak the truth, are directly opposite to the true interests of the nation; for considering the soil, climate, and situation of the country, and the number of its inhabitants, as they have no reason to fear, so they have no cause to distrust their neighbours; and as the several provinces of the kingdom furnish almost all that can contribute to the pleasures or wants of mankind, they might enjoy within themselves all the happiness a people could desire. A government, therefore, that consulted the good of the people, and the general benefits of its subjects, would labour to preserve peace, and be assiduous in cultivating those arts which are the consequences of ease: this would, perhaps, tend as much to increase the power and fix the security of such a government, as the contrary measures which are now pursued tend to strengthen and aggrandise that absolute monarchy which has been erected there on the ruins of their ancient constitution by the present reigning family.





A scheme, however, entirely opposite to this has been carried on for at least a century past, with great steadiness and conformable success. We have, therefore, no reason to hope that the court of France will be induced to change her measures, which might now be looked upon as altering the model of government; so that looking upon things in a political light, we must consider the court and its interests without having any regard to the interests of the people, who are quite out of the question. The grandeur of the crown, which, with great impropriety, is in that country styled the glory of France, appears to be the ultimate aim of her ministerial measures; upon this they have fixed their attention so long, and have magnified it so much, that but very lately it occupied solely the cares, and fixed the attention of all the people. When I say very lately, I have in my eye the glorious but ineffectual struggles of their parliament for liberty: the country now seems to assert the privileges of human nature, to regard the pre-eminence of monarchs only as artificial compacts; their writers, in spite of power, inculcate those principles, and perhaps we may see this nation one day rival us in freedom, as they do now in the arts of peace. But hitherto we have seen only the dawnings of that spirit; their court still goes on in the same track of politics they have long pursued, and endeavour to work principles of absolute submission into the very spirit of all their laws. To propagate this, every measure of state is employed, treaties made, wars undertaken, and alliances agreed upon.





The great instrument in the hands of despotism is a large standing army; but those forces which in time of war may be serviceable, in times of peace may be equally pernicious. Large armies must be provided with employment, or they will be apt to make it for themselves; or should military discipline be so well preserved as to keep the army in subjection to the civil power, yet in a long peace their vigour is destroyed, and they become relaxed by every effeminacy in fashion. Besides, a soldier in peace becomes contemptible and poor; war is the only season for promotion, and consequently soldiers are more easily recruited when they expect immediate rewards. Thus a despotic monarchy ever finds it its interest to be at war; but then the prudence of its measures lies in the choice of a proper object to be at war with. A power more strong or formidable than itself can never be the object on such an occasion; it must, to act with conformity to its own maxims, make a selection of some neighbour who may make a small but an unequal resistance. This has been the policy of France for many years —to attack some neighbouring power, and continue the war until such alliances were formed as made the power attacked able to oppose her projects: then it was always thought high time to patch up a peace, and to remain content with part of the advantages acquired in the beginning of the war. With this view the wars of France have for more than a century been carrying on, and their power increasing. Whatever may be pretended by other courts, that of France was certainly the secret and original cause of the present commotion in Europe. The empress queen, though naturally ambitious and revengeful, though stripped of what she thought her just dominions, and lying under the ignominy of being compelled to compliance, yet even she found these passions too expensive for her to gratify either, and in all probability would have rested contented under irremediable losses. But France wanted a war, and such an one as might diminish the force of her rivals for power without impairing her own. Nothing could be more for her advantage than the discontents between the house of Brandenburg and Austria, since the diminution of their power was in political estimation an accession of power to herself. Such were her intentions when a quarrel with England was found unavoidably necessary. A long undecided frontier was to be adjusted in America. These were to have remained on the footing of former treaties; and lands could not be settled at that time in Europe, that were thought wholly useless, or were utterly unknown. So distant a quarrel France was entirely unequal to; a superiority at sea must necessarily give the advantage there, and England was greatly her superior in this respect; all that was to be done was to bring the flames of war into Europe as speedily as possible, to attack England on some pretext or other in her closest allies, and at the same time to embroil other powers, so as to prevent their succouring the countries they should invade. In short, Hanover was to be the theatre of French invasion; and as it was thought to be incapable of any vigorous resistance, they intended to keep possession of it as a pledge for the conduct of Great Britain. The affairs of Europe being thus adjusted, and sufficient work as they imagined cut out for the armies of England, they threw off the mask with regard to America, sent their troops to secure their possessions there, and invade what they termed the encroachments of England. The erection, acquisition, and maintenance of a few paltry forts were pretended as the grounds of the contest; but the scheme was much deeper laid, and affected the very vitals of the English empire in America, and consequently in Europe. By the help of their missionaries, men who at once served the interests of religion and their country, they gained over to their side the savage but warlike inhabitants of this country, who generally lived by hunting and wandering along those trackless deserts for a precarious subsistence. In these regions they built forts, and used every art for exterminating English interests wherever they came. Their power here they imagined sufficiently established to endure a war, and therefore it was begun as usual by invasion. Their generals were mostly regular bred soldiers, an advantage which they knew the English were wholly destitute of; but above all, their common men, inured to hardships and poverty of living, kept in the field in seasons when the English could not even in their camps sustain the severity of the season, and served with cheerfulness upon provisions on which an Englishman must have starved. Their first successes were answerable; notwithstanding which, they would have found the undertaking more difficult than they at first imagined, had not a fatal division in our public councils entered the English governments which they were to attack, and who, like the Jews of old when besieged by the Romans, were destroying each other while the enemy was entering their gates with fire and sword. But in one respect they were far more unpardonable even than that deluded people, who generally discontinued their bickerings when the common foe was to be assaulted, which was not the case with the English colonists; unreasonable obstinacy on the side of power, and unreasonable avarice on that of property, kept them divided in the greatest dangers.





Meanwhile it was matter of amazement to all Europe that France, in the acquisition of a territory which, to all appearance, was not worth the conquering, should spend such immense sums, and form such dangerous intrigues as she did upon the continent of Europe. Her designs, though long suspected, were not absolutely detected, till the management of her commissaries, who were appointed to treat with those of England, and to settle her limits in America, made it extremely plain that she had formed such pretensions there, as, had they been carried into execution, must have totally ruined the most beneficial of our colonies, and must have engrossed to herself the commerce of the new world. The court, as well as the people of England, were fully sensible of this, and therefore resented it accordingly; but their resentment France thought insignificant, as it was put into execution at four times the sum of what it cost them to carry on the war. They knew the state of our finances, and thought government credit strained so high, as to be in danger every day of breaking; they knew the immense charge of hiring transports, the only method the English had of sending troops to that part of the world; a charge almost beyond credibility, perhaps greater than if those transports had been the actual property of government. The charge of embarking and disembarking troops, artillery, and baggage was equal in proportion; but above all the inconvenience of having no port upon the ocean from which our armaments could sail directly, gave this enemy of Great Britain infinite advantage every year; and every season's experience showed the irreparable inconveniency of being obliged to fit out our armaments from the Tower of London; from whence it requires two or three winds before they can proceed directly on their voyage. Some ships have been known to wait so long in port as to consume their whole stock of provisions for America, and this twice successively, while they have been as often revictualed. The French, on the contrary, by sailing directly from Brest, have not only a cheap, but what was more precious, an expeditious passage to their colonies; they knew the importance of this, and availed themselves of it. They thought it was the worst economy in the world to burthen the public as we did with unnecessary and immense charges for transports, only that the captains and other officers of their ships might have more room and live more commodiously. Thus the war in America must cost the English treble the expense of her enemies; wherefore it is ever the interest of France to begin the war, as thus she loads her enemies with extraordinary expenses, and ever gains great advantages before they are prepared.





With regard to expense, peace and war are almost always alike to a nation who makes peace only an interval in which to prepare for a vigorous infraction of it. Thus it is probable France will be ever ready to declare war with England, and as ready to make peace when she finds her enemies properly prepared to resist her. She may, and it is highly probable she will at times of peace dissemble her real views in favour of trade, which there is no question she will encourage and promote all that lies in her power, that it may in some measure repair the losses occasioned by her wars; but there is no room to suppose that she will at any time remain quiet for several years together, because that must many ways endanger a government like hers, by creating factions in the court, relaxing the military discipline of her armies, and giving time to her neighbours to put themselves into a state of security against her ambition.





How England should behave in the present crisis is a subject not easy to be determined. France certainly wants a peace; all her views of going to war have been already answered; she has loaded her enemies with debt; she has weakened that government whose greatest strength lay in their treasury; she only desires to sit down for a while, with all things in the same situation they were at the beginning of the war.

Whether it be the interest of England to make a peace upon such concessions, it should be next our business to inquire. We may, however, upon this occasion be permitted to remark that, as peace is the end of war, it is extremely injurious to the government to render a peace difficult, by prescribing impracticable conditions, by teaching the multitude to expect concessions from the enemy which every reasonable being knows our enemies cannot be compelled to make, and precluding the benefits which might accrue to us from the real advantages which will for ever do honour both to our councils and arms, by an absurd exaggeration of them. However, should affairs be adjusted, at the conclusion of the present war, upon the same footing they stood upon its commencement, it is extremely evident that the French will ever have the advantage of us, by beginning the war afresh; and that each advantage so obtained, will, in the end, contribute to weaken us and add strength to them. But it may not be easy, or perhaps proper, to determine the degree of power that may be expedient for us to leave the French in America, in case we should be so successful in all our attempts as to bring them to our measures. That stubborn disregard of the English government, which in times of the greatest danger manifested itself in several of our provinces, seems to make it necessary they should be continued in a condition to be obliged always to have recourse to, and dependence on, their mother country; which would perhaps not be long the case, were they entirely rid of all apprehension from the French. As to the supposition of their joining the French, it would be a measure of so much rashness and folly, as well as wickedness, that it seems to deserve no further notice.





The French possessions, therefore, in America should be restored; as they at once serve to prevent our colonies from forgetting their dependence, and to awe the court of France by our manifest superiority in that part of the world. We have been long considered as superior at sea; were it in the power of any articles of peace to get that power ascertained, by preventing the enemy from building above a certain number of ships of war, then, indeed, we might on both sides hope for a long and lasting peace. It is necessary that the power of France by land should have some counterpoise; her strength and her riches are never so well known as by her losses. We see that notwithstanding she has, within the space of two years, lost upwards of a hundred thousand men in Germany; notwithstanding the immense sums she has dissipated among the northern powers, in keeping them either neutral or steady to her interest; and notwithstanding her furnishing the Queen of Hungary, the electors of Saxony and Bavaria, and the other German princes in the alliance, with all the money which helped to put their troops in motion, yet we still see her able to pour new armies to her assistance, and fresh supplies of money into the coffers of her friends. Such amazing strength, I say, should have some counterpoise. From Prussia it cannot be expected, since the strength of that kingdom at present is merely artificial and transitory; as it rose to its highest pitch under the present monarch, so it probably will decline when he is no longer to support it. All the other powers whose interest it is to check the growth of French power, either bribed by her wealth, or persuaded by her councils, conspire with her against their own independence; it lies, therefore, upon England alone to prescribe the proper terms of peace, and to provide such a treaty as will disable France from beginning a new war but at a manifest disadvantage. The house of Bourbon will not, indeed cannot, relinquish her present system, which must always render her terrible to her neighbours; but still there wants not a power sufficient to render all her intrigues abortive, and to defeat all her enterprises, though supported by her utmost force.





Chapter III.—Of Prussia

The interests of this monarch, if considered at large, might take up a large treatise. A man whose whole time is spent in studying the welfare of his subjects, has many connections unseen by the vulgar, and many designs which are known only to himself. The house of Brandenburg, for more than a century, has been growing into power by a succession of wise and excellent princes, who laid out their lives in encouraging arts, promoting industry, inviting foreigners into their

TOl. IX—4





dominions, and levying such armies as might render them respected by their neighbours. By wisdom and by justice they have raised a kingdom whose power is great, if we regard the shortness of its existence, but small in comparison with that of other monarchs whose strength has been confirmed by time. Whatever artificial strength the dominions of the king of Prussia could acquire has been added to it; but unless a happy concurrence of the same events that gave this kingdom power continue in its preservation, it is to be feared it will again sink into its primeval obscurity. The kings of Prussia have long had two objects in view; they regarded themselves as members of the common confederacy against the ambition of France, at the same time that they were plainly, as princes of Germany, the only guardians of the Germanic constitution. Here then was a very difficult part to act; the house of Austria's ambition was to be restrained, who aimed at destroying those liberties which Prussia thought herself entitled to defend; but every resistance to the Austrian power was a diminution of it, and consequently an accession of power to her rival of France, and the common enemy of Europe. A third power was therefore requisite to regulate these alliances and disputes, and to prevent the ill-consequences that might result from too great an increase of power in the states of Austria and France. It was the Prussian interest to see the balance of Europe kept exactly even; the king, therefore, paid constant attention to the measures pursued to Sweden and Denmark, and had ever a watchful eye upon the empire of Russia, as upon his diligence in those respects, he fancied the security and grandeur of his state to depend. This was a scheme which for a while was conducted with the most refined policy, and the greatest stretch of human prudence. From eaoh of these powers he, by his address, drew some advantages, and without offending any, was considered as the natural ally of each. But how weak is human prudence against unexpected contingencies; and how little avails the wit of man, when Providence thinks proper to controvert his designs! He imagined the empire of Russia secure in his interests; but by the late revolution in the empire of Russia, the whole system of his affairs were changed with respect to that alliance. Instead of a close conjunction, it brought about a division of interests; and from an intimate union, created a distant civility, at first intermixed with some degree of jealousy, so much harder to be removed from his close alliance with the excluded family, with whom he had all the connections of friendship and mutual interests. Nor was his alliance with the crown of Sweden more fortunate. By marrying his sister to the then successor and now king of Sweden, he expected to secure the amity of that country, which, from other motives, he also expected would befriend him upon every occasion; Kit a late unfortunate attempt to enlarge the prerogative of the crown of that kingdom, has rendered the senate of Sweden more powerful, or at least established their former pretensions, by which he is looked upon with a jealous eye, and his connections with the royal family only serve to render him more obnoxious to the hatred of the members of the Swedish aristocracy. The house of Austria saw the distress of his situation, and was desirous of taking the advantage of it, but had neither strength nor courage to avow her designs. France, however, privately offered her assistance, and the empress queen meditated the rescuing her Silesian dominions, which she regarded still as hers, though ceded to Prussia by all the formality of treaty. Notwithstanding all the obligations she lay under to his Britannic majesty, who wisely foresaw that being sincere in that cession was the only means of restoring tranquillity to Europe, she suffered symptoms of dislike to escape her on every occasion; and an apparent reluctance discovered itself in every measure of even common civility, which she was obliged to observe towards his Prussian majesty. Such a behaviour could not fail of putting so penetrating a monarch upon his guard, and even obliged him to continue those forces for his interest, which he might otherwise be willing to do from inclination. France still continued her apparent friendship to the house of Brandenburg; she was ready to lend her assistance to any power that could serve to embroil





"The cave was examined and Meander being found, was immediately apprehended."

E00a£8 Ho. fi.





the affairs of Germany; but soon, however, they perceived Prussia to have greater strength, and consequently, from sound politics, thought themselves bound to side with the weaker, as this . might give their assistance at once the appearance of equity, and draw the war to greater length, which was to be the grand result of all their designs. Whatever politicians may fancy of unexpected occurrences, the junction of the houses of Austria and Bourbon was certainly foreseen when he concluded an alliance with England. But at the time he regarded Hanover as a sufficient barrier between him and France; and by the good oonduct of its generals it appears to be such at this time. He long desired the alliance of England, a power so capable of giving him real assistance in his commercial views; and this friendship could be purchased only by the loss of that of France. By France taking part in the war, he knew that he should encounter some difficulties, but at the same time he hoped greater advantages at the conclusion of a peace. Besides, he imagined that Russia would perform her treaties with England, and in her, from a suspected foe, he hoped a powerful friend. Such considerations made it both his interest and inclination to cultivate the friendship of the English; a league which, though it did not happen to turn out entirely to his advantage, will probably, in the end, be more beneficial to him than any other he could have contracted.





The king of Prussia has great forces, large revenues, a genius capable of conducting both, and a moderation that will restrain him from attempts superior to these. He knows perfectly well, that the grandeur of the sovereign must be established upon the welfare of the subject; and this has excited him to show the same regard for the happiness of his people as for the extension of his own power, or rather has induced him to make the latter always subservient to the former. Without a constant resource, he knows his power must be transitory; and this he can have by no other method so much as commerce. He has ever been known to have an inclination to become a maritime power, or, which is the same thing in other words, to enable his subjects to increase their wealth by their industry, through the channels of foreign trade. What power, therefore, could so much promote his designs of this kind as England?—a power which cannot fear him for a rival in greatness; which has no inclination to restrain, and has great abilities to protect, her enterprises of that nature. Whenever the struggles of power, which at present raise all Europe to arms, shall be composed, we have very little room to doubt that his majesty of Prussia will turn his whole views to commerce, since the very important and commodious port of Embden lies open to facilitate his schemes. There he may form such plans as will reimburse those expenses he has been at in securing his acquisitions, if not to the present generation, at least to posterity.





Chapter IV.—Of Germany

Naturally in the course of our design, we proceed to the empire of Germany, which is to be considered in two lights: first, as a country composed of many different states, in their civil government independent one of another, and under sovereigns absolute within themselves: secondly, as these above-mentioned states, forming one great confederacy under a common head, upon which they have a political dependence, though that very supreme power is under control by the constitution of the empire, and the regulations of its own tribunals.

With respect to the first, it is necessary the uninformed reader should be told, that all things relating to the government of the German empire ought to be regulated according to a writing called the Golden Bull. This was prepared by the Emperor Charles IV. in the year 1356, and received the consent of all the states of the empire. It regulates the election of the emperor, his privileges, his vicars, the rights of electors in general, the privilege of each elector in particular, the prerogative of the princes and states, the Diets, and the sentences of the empire. Notwithstanding the strict adherence to this writing in general, these regulations have sometimes been dispensed with; for though it ordains that the election of an emperor should be made with the consent of all the electors, yet in 1742, the Emperor Charles VII. was chosen without the suffrage of the elector of Bohemia, who was Queen of Hungary, and would never acknowledge him. Likewise the city of Aix is the place where the emperor ought to be crowned; yet the Emperor Joseph was crowned at Augsburg in 1690; Charles VI. at Frankfort on the Main, in 1711; as well as Charles his successor, in 1742. By this Bull, the number of electors were fixed to seven; yet this did not hinder the house of Bavaria from obtaining that dignity in 1623, nor the house of Hanover in 1692. The number of electors at present is nine, viz.:—1. Mentz, 2. Treves, 3. Cologne, 4. Bohemia, 5. Bavaria, 6. Saxony, 7. Brandenburg, 8. Palatine, 9. Brunswick Lunenburg; of this number, Mentz, Treves, and Cologne, are archbishops. The emperor has no estates in quality of his prerogative, nor any revenue to support his dignity; and therefore they always choose one who has dominions of his own. The throne may become vacant several ways; as by death, resignation, as was done by Charles V., and by deprivation, which happened to the Emperor Wenceslaus. The power of the emperor consists in appointing a meeting of the Diet, and other imperial assemblies, as well as in dissolving them. He has a right to authorise their determinations, and afterwards to put them in execution in his own name. He can confirm alliances and treaties which his predecessors have made for the good of the empire. He can create and confer high secular dignities; such as King, Prince, Archduke, Duke, Marquis, Landgrave, Count, and Baron. He can require an oath of fidelity from all the electors, princes, and other members of the empire. He has the entire disposal of the states and principalities which devolve to the empire by forfeiture or otherwise, and he can institute and confirm universities and academies. All this may be done from his sole authority; but he must have the consent of the electors when he would alienate or mortgage anything belonging to the empire, or grant the privilege of coining money, or confiscate the goods and estates of rebels. The consent of all the states of the empire is necessary, when he would regulate anything relating to religion; declare war in or out of the empire, impose subsidies or general contributions, raise troops, build new fortresses, put garrisons into old ones, make peace and alliances. But if the case is very urgent, the consent of the elector is sufficient; and he can, by his own authority agree to a truce, or a suspension of arms. He may issue out admonitions, directions, and prohibitions in writing; but these are not binding unless authorised by the Diet, and then they have the force of a law.





When the emperor is elected, he is obliged to certain restrictions of his power, in consequence of a capitulation made with the electors and states of the empire. It is a sort of contract, which he agrees to before he is declared emperor, and which he ratifies after his election. When there is no emperor, or he is absent, the king of the Romans acts in his stead; but if there is no king of the Romans, it devolves to two vicars,—the elector of Saxony, and the elector Palatine. The former exercises his prerogative in upper and lower Saxony; as does the latter on the Rhine, Swabia, and Franconia; for these are the places where the ancient laws of the Franks were established.





The empire of Germany, in its present state is only a part of those states that were once under the dominion of Charlemagne. This prince was possessed of France by right of succession: he had conquered by force of arms all the countries situated between the Baltic Sea and the Danube. He added to his empire the kingdom of Lombardy, the city of Rome and its territory, together with the exarchate of Ravenna, which were almost the only possessions that remained in the West to the emperors of Constantinople. Those vast estates were at that time called the Empire of the West, being only a part of what the Roman emperors were formerly in possession of. In succeeding times, and particularly after the extinction of the race of Charlemagne, France was separated from the empire, and the Germans elected Otho the Great for their sovereign; who again made the conquest of Rome and Italy, and reunited them to his dominions. At length, when the bloody disputes between the priesthood and the empire engaged the government from attending to the conduct of its vassals, several petty and almost independent sovereignties were erected under different pretences; and the emperors being unable to repress their usurpations, were at last contented with a very precarious homage, and confirmed by their authority the possessions of the usurpers. Not contented with this, those who had acted thus wrongfully, had influence enough to get their encroachments continued by an hereditary succession. The emperors, at that time, had no other method of balancing the power of these vassals, which was frequently greater than their own, but by granting several lands to the church, and liberty to several cities. Such is the true original of the power of the states which compose the German empire. However, the emperors have often testified inclinations to revive their ancient rights, and have claimed dominion over Italy and Rome. But scarcely anything now remains of those possessions, but empty titles without any real jurisdiction.





Several authors have found a great difficulty in determining in what class of government that of the German empire ought to be placed. In fact, if we consider it as having at its head a prince to whom the estates of the empire are obliged to render homage, to swear fidelity and obedience, and to receive from him the investiture of their fiefs, we shall be induced to regard the empire as a monarchical state. But, on the other hand, the emperor can be regarded only as the representative of the empire, since he has not even the power of making laws: in the same manner, he has no possessions annexed to his dignity; he may grant the investiture of fiefs, but he can upon no pretence recall this grant once made, without the consent of the empire; besides, in speaking of the states, the emperor always calls them the vassals of us and the empire.





If we consider the power and prerogatives of the states, the part which they have in the legislation, and the privileges which each of them exert in their own proper dominions, we shall have reason to consider the empire as an aristocratical state. Lastly, we shall find in their Hans-towns democracy prevail, and they have voices at the Diet or council of the empire; from all which we may conclude that the government of the empire is that of a mixed republic.

Thuanus, in speaking of the German empire, remarks, that it is astonishing that so many powerful people, without being forced either by a fear of their neighbouring nations or by necessity, could ever concur in forming a state so powerful; a state which has subsisted for so many ages, and of surprising strength, considering the weakness of the greatest part of the members which compose it. This observation, however, we must take the liberty to contradict; for those people have never been united to form one state, but those subjects have rendered themselves independent who before were in subjection, still, however, preserving that degree of subordination which was consistent with their mutual safety. Interest keeps them together, and this is surely a most prevailing consideration.





It is not to be doubted but that the empire, composed as it is of several very powerful states, must be considered as a combination that deserves great respect from the other powers of Europe, provided that all the members which compose it would concur in the common good of their country. But the state is subject to very great inconveniences; the authority of the head is not great enough to command obedience; fear, distrust, and jealousy reign continually among the members; none are willing to yield in the least to their neighbours; the most serious and the most important affairs with respect to the community, are often neglected for private disputes, for precedencies, and all the imaginary privileges of misplaced ambition. The frontiers are all ill guarded and ill fortified; the troops of the empire are but few in number, and ill paid; nor are there any public funds to supply these defects, as none are willing to contribute to them. The so much boasted liberty of the Germanic body is nothing more than the exercise of arbitrary power which a small number of men happen to enjoy; while the emperor is incapable of preventing them from oppressing the people, who are reckoned as nothing and used like slaves, although the force of a nation consists in these alone. Commerce is subject among them to continual exactions, from the multiplicity of rights which are claimed by every power through whose states the goods must be necessarily transported. This renders their fine and navigable rivers almost useless. The tribunals of justice have but small salaries, and even these ill paid; yet, still worse, the number of judges is insufficient. In the Diets of the empire, their deliberations are carried on with the most insupportable tediousness, and render this government ridiculous to the nations around; to whom the dilatory proceedings of Germany are almost grown into a proverb. This slowness is sufficiently described in the following Latin lines, which though rough, are however replete with meaning:





Protestando convenimus Conclusa rejicimus

Conveniendo competimus Et salutem patriae consideramus

Competendo consulimus Per consilia lenta.violenta, vino-

In confusione concludimus lenta.



From this epitome we may see that the interests of the reigning emperor are very different from those of the electing states, and that the present house of Austria have views very different from the good of the electors on the Diet in general. Let us then consider the interests of this house, and we shall find them naturally fall under the following heads; in almost every one of which we shall find it at present acting contrary to its real interests, and laying a train which will, in the end, turn to its own destruction. Their first consideration should be, to preserve the imperial dignity in the family to which it is at present restored; as it is the interest of the princes and states of the empire, for preserving a bulwark against the infidels, a proper balance against the power of France, and the tranquillity of Germany, to place the imperial .dignity in that family which shall regard the Turks with jealousy, France with envy, and the powers of Germany without any degree of envy. The house of Austria, therefore, should have ever conspired with the views of her associates in empire, should have endeavoured to maintain the freedom and independence of the empire, together with the privileges and immunities of all its members. This conduct alone could secure to that house the support of the empire upon all occasions; which, though from past experience politicians may possibly consider as a thing rather of show than of consequence, yet it might become of great efficacy and importance. For as the interests of the emperor and the empire in sound policy should be always the same, so if they were constantly and firmly united, it is very evident that the Germanic body would always be an equal, if not an over-match for France, her natural foe, without the assistance of any other power whatever. A gentle and mild administration, therefore, without any formidable preparations that, by their nature, must seem intended only against the liberties of the constitution; an administration that might serve to conciliate the hearts of the German princes, so as to bring them to feel just and warm sentiments of their own interest, would have been a most easy and expeditious means of inducing them to confide in, and pay a proper respect and duty to, the head of the empire. This would have detached them from France, and from every other foreign power; none of which ever had, or ever can have, any influence over them, but from their real or imaginary apprehensions of the power of the house of Austria, and its desire to reclaim privileges which time has confirmed others in the possession of. Had these precautions been observed, the emperor might in time become one of the greatest and most formidable powers of Europe, that is, considered in a defensive light, if attacked without reason or just provocation; and would therefore be revered by his neighbours instead of being dependent upon them, and be capable of protecting his allies, without ever falling under the necessity of seeking beyond the limits of Germany for assistance. This opinion may be easily supported, if we consider that the emperor, by his prerogative, has many opportunities to benefit and oblige most of the princes and states of the empire, and can always defend and protect them. This power, therefore, wisely and seasonably exerted, might suffice to bring about all that I allege might have been expected from it: but if we oonsider the present conduct of the emperor in this light, in what despicable circumstances of prudence will he appear; his empire torn with factions; his inveterate enemy, by assisting one part weakening both, and consequently in political estimation, growing itself stronger; a part of the empire disgusted merely upon a religious account, and the balance of Europe grown an empty sound!





The next point that claims our regard is the interest of the house of Austria as a member of the Germanic body. As to this, it is apparent that her power was, at the beginning of the present war, sufficiently great to be compatible with the interest of the other powers of the Germanic body, and that it cannot be for her advantage to endeavour to increase it at the expense of her neighbours; which is, indeed, the sole thing which has hitherto turned, or can at any time turn to her prejudice. Had she remained satisfied with her possessions, and formed no designs upon the dominions of others, it is highly probable that she would have found her neighbours disposed to live with her upon terms of friendship, amity, and respect. The house of Austria misplaced her ambition in attempting to grow greater by war: the commerce of her dominions; the navigation of her rivers, and the cultivation of those

VOL. IX—S





immense barbarous countries that lie within her jurisdiction, would have given sufficient employment to any sovereign, and procured immense happiness to the people. Almost all her hereditary countries are capable of great improvement; the kingdom of Bohemia and the provinces that border on the Adriatic, more especially. Some of those nations that in the last and present war are famous for furnishing her armies with irregulars, are known to have a great turn for trade, and, if properly encouraged, might render her more effectual services by the arts of peace, than by their valour in war. But that spirit, this family, ever destined to be the tools of the designing and the bigots of ill-directed zeal, have taken all opportunities to suppress. Those brave people want religious liberty; for the house of Austria piques itself upon its attachment to the Popish faith, and has already persecuted those very inhabitants who, in her former wars, served as her strongest bulwark against the invasions of her enemies, and were the warmest friends in her cause, and the cause of liberty. And yet for all this attachment to the court of Rome, her returns have been very few; nay, she has upon all occasions, shown a manifest attachment to the house of Bourbon. Any relaxation in this kind, arising from Christian charity, sound policy, or the gratitude of the court of Vienna, would have wonderful effects; for it would not fail of rendering all the countries under her obedience more populous, and consequently more rich and fruitful than they are at present. Neither should this liberty of conscience have extended to the Lutherans and the Reformed only, but also to the members of the Greek church, to the Moravians, and to every denomination of Christians. This would have drawn multitudes out of the Turkish dominions into those of Austria, and contributed at once to strengthen the empress and weaken her enemies.





Our last consideration is the interest of the house of Austria with regard to the sovereignty of the Low Countries—a point of the greatest consequence to that family, as well as to the interest of Europe in general. It is by her being in possession of these provinces that she, in sound politics, should have continued the natural and perpetual ally of the maritime powers, who had never failed to show, upon all occasions, the utmost readiness to support her interest. By her being in possession of these countries, she was considered as a barrier between Holland and France, and might have been said to be placed there as a guardian of the liberties of Europe. Had she inviolably preserved those countries, she could not fail of preserving the affection of her neighbours, or at least they would not have the imprudence to avow their enmity; those were pledges of her universal respect, and amounted almost to universal empire. She had fatal experience, by former distresses, of the dreadful consequences which followed the neglecting her frontiers on that side; and all people imagined she would avoid like mistakes for the future. But the giving up the port of Ostend to be garrisoned by the French, without any other deposit for its restitution but barely the promise of his most Christian Majesty, was such a blunder in politics as cannot be well reconciled even to common-sense. Is it to be doubted that the French are so eager to place a garrison there from interested motives; or can a calm spectator think, that they who can find pretexts to cover the most flagrant injustice, will not be able to furnish enough to keep possession of a garrison which unlocks the liberties of mankind, and which, while possessed, must continue them truly formidable to all the powers of Europe? The giving up this port was not only injustice to the Germanic body, but was betraying the trust of Europe. In her hands it was placed as the most sacred deposit; it was not so much given her to possess as to preserve, nor had she a right to alienate it without the universal consent of those powers from whom she received the investiture. Thus, in whatever light we regard the politics of the house of Austria, we shall find them destructive of its own interests, tending towards the aggrandisement of its enemies, and subversive of the general liberties of Europe. We shall find its politics without sagacity, its reasonings tinctured with zeal, and its councils embarrassed by factions. The interests of the house of Austria had always been justly regarded as incompatible with each other; France had risen into opulence from the spoils of that family, and they two were generally considered to poise the fates of Europe between them; yet still some very whimsical circumstances attended this dissension. The family of Austria, the most bigoted votaries of Popery, and the most abject tools of superstition, was however the chief prop of the Protestant interest in Europe. The family of Bourbon, on the other hand, had saved the liberties of the Germanic body, and supported the freedom of its constitution. While those two great powers were thus mutually employed in humbling each other, their counteraction had operated to salutary purposes; but their struggles now ceasing, and an inauspicious alliance taking place, the balance that regulated their motion is lost, and till that can be recovered, their movements will only end in the loss of public liberty, both civil and religious. This balance scarcely now continues to subsist; or at least the present combination of interests bids fair to destroy it.





The present emperor was raised to the bed of the most august princess, and to the throne of the most august empire in Europe, merely because he was so totally insignificant, that his acquiring them gave no jealousy to any power in the world. The specimens he gave of his temper and disposition, from the time of his marriage to that of his election, were such as could no way alarm any of his contemporaries. This, however, has been proved by experience to be by no means a measure of the most refined policy. For a prince who had great interests of his own to pursue, with a proper spirit to support them, never would have been conducted by a weak woman, who at best was conducted by a priest.





Gratitude was never one of the most shining jewels in the imperial crown, when worn by the family of Austria, nor indeed have the princes of that house ever been so much distinguished by their virtue and abilities, as they have been by their fortunes and dominions; and perhaps there is not in all the experience of history, an instance of any other family where so many men reputed great have risen out of so little merit. Cunning, ambition, and a conjuncture of happy accidents, are all that could recommend Charles the Fifth, their greatest boast; while a thousand despicable qualities, both civil and religious, contribute to turn his character into contempt, if not detestation. The present empress, in the early time of her life, bade fair to atone by her virtues for all that blind partiality which fortune had manifested for her family. Her youth, her beauty, her wrongs, her spirit, and her intrepidity rendered her the public care of England, and raised a compassion for her sufferings which sprung rather from motives of humanity than reasons of state. Our sovereign was employed in her cause, and our best troops sacrificed in her defence. But there are certain





situations of life in which the ruling passion is discovered, however disguised or concealed by circumstances in the beginning. Unprovoked and unprepared, her imperial majesty therefore formed a design upon the house of Brandenburg; which, when carried to such a height as to be past all possibility of being disowned, was, by the caution of her adversary, first detected and then defeated. Still, however, she had it in her power to make a tolerable retreat; but far from that, she united herself with her professed enemies, put all her most valuable possessions into their hands, and availing herself of the fluctuating councils of England, flattered herself to be able to disunite the Protestant power in Germany, by setting up its most redoubted defenders in opposition to each other. In this last measure, though she did not succeed to her wishes, yet, by a conjuncture of circumstances, she did not entirely want success. Yet, let us suppose this deluded woman at the summit of her wishes, gratifying private resentment, satiating her ecclesiastical advisers with Protestant blood; let us suppose every power humbled so far as to own her sway— does she expect that the French will tamely resign what they shall happen to conquer? does she imagine that the Russians will not find some pretence for settling a colony in Germany? Thus, possessed of newly usurped and precarious privileges, will she be left in the midst of powerful enemies, who will undoubtedly reclaim something for fighting her battles; nor will they sacrifice millions of their countrymen for the empty glory of succouring an ally, whom they still must regard with the rancour of ill-cemented friendship! Nothing can be more certain than that France could show no reason for invading Hanover, but in order to execute the imperial commissions, and those sentences which the forms of the Germanic constitution prescribe against those princes who fall under the displeasure of the house of Austria. The electorate of Hanover was so far from affording any pretence for attacking it, that it was offered a neutrality, the conditions of which were both shameful and dangerous; but they were such as many powerful princes of the empire have, without any imputation, been obliged to submit to, when prescribed either by the French or Austrians, as either happened to prevail. But nothing surely could have been more illjudged than to make France execute the imperial decrees; this was adding strength to the enemy, in that part where he chose that strength should be exerted.





As the conduct of the German princes in the present war is so blended with one another that they do not admit of separate considerations, the end of this sketch will be best answered by comprehending them under one view. The elector of Saxony lay under the greatest obligations to the generosity of his Prussian majesty, who but some years before was master of his capital. But that prrhce was governed by a wife warmly attached to the house of Austria, and a favourite, who was a bigot to the mischievous politics of Machiavel. I call Count Bruhl a favourite rather than a minister; because some abilities are required in the latter capacity, and we know of none he ever discovered either in the field or the cabinet. In his master's court and in his own palaces he shone with a prodigality that the electoral revenues, large as they are, could not supply; which might be one of the true reasons why his master, contrary to all sound politics, was brought into the schemes of the courts of Vienna and Petersburg against his Prussian nieghbour. It is true the situation of Saxony, and the weight which that elector was supposed to have in Poland, rendered this operation extremely convenient and advantageous for her imperial majesty's designs. His Prussian majesty foresaw this; he knew how much depended upon the success of the first blow, and that the Poles would be determined by that event. The Poles possess a large extended country, without any army to defend their frontiers. Neutrality is their chief aim; their interest is to have the forces of their neighbours so balanced, that neither party may force them from their scheme of siding with neither. Had the Prussian monarch waited until his enemies had an opportunity of putting their designs into execution, the Poles must infallibly have been forced into the league; but so formidable a junction the prudent monarch of Prussia knew how to prevent. His preparations, his march, his progress, and his success were all equally rapid. The Saxons, enervated by two successive luxurious reigns, could not stand the terrible array of so formidable a power. The victor, though in possession of the whole of the electorate of Saxony, did not, however, make either an impotent or insolent use of his advantages; and though he still retains it as a deposit for the expenses which the elector's unguarded conduct had forced him upon, yet the contributions he has exacted of the inhabitants amount not to one half of the sums they were obliged to pay to their natural sovereign—perhaps the only instance in history, in which a conquered nation found their religion protected, their taxes diminished, and their liberties extended, by being overcome.





From what has been said of the German empire it will no longer appear extraordinary that the empress queen was able to make no better stand against the power which she was long preparing to attack, but who at last put himself into the light of an aggressor. She was possessed of large funds, her armies headed by able generals, and her councils directed by able politicians. But, what are these advantages to a power that wants economy? She has the art, in one rejoicing night, to dissipate sums that would serve to subsist a small army. The news of a defeat served only to make a night of festivity at her court; and the cries of her subjects for redress were drowned in the symphonies of music, or the shouts of riotous entertainments. The funds appropriated for her military operations were mortgaged to devouring commissaries, the sons either of extortion or parade; and the lucky stand she did make, was mostly owing to the affection of the grandees for her person and family.





The battle of Colin, which his Prussian majesty lost, led both the court of Vienna and that of Versailles into a fatal error. Unacquainted as they were with the sentiments and resolution of a great hero fighting in his own person and for his own interests, they determined to give him no other concessions but what he must receive in the character of a suppliant. We are not to suppose the king of Prussia one of those unconsidering heroes who knew no difference in junctures, or that he would at that time have refused a fair and honourable accommodation; but he knew that any other was worse than none. The convention entered into by the Hanoverians served to increase the insolence of his enemies. The queen of Hungary would offer no terms without the advice of France; and France found it her interest to offer no terms at all.

We need add very little to what has been already observed, to convince the intelligent reader that, should the four great crowns now in alliance succeed, a new system of power and property must take place in Europe. This is not only obvious to common-sense, but demonstrable by notorious proofs. Not only the dominions of Prussia, but those of Hanover are to be wrested from their former possessors and shared between the invaders, particularly France and Austria; while the other two powers of the alliance are to be contented with what they can secure for themselves.





This view of the Austrian schemes, would, however, be very imperfect, did we here omit laying before the reader one observation; namely, that as it is by no means the interest of this house that the princes of the empire should be too powerful, so the figure she now makes is owing to the greatness of those very powers she now endeavours to suppress; not to reduce, but to ruin. Systems of power are no other than combinations of interests; and every fluctuation of interests produces an alteration of system. He who some years ago should have heard of the present system, would have thought it incredible, and would never have conceived that the elector of Hanover and the house of Austria would have embraced separate interests, and acted in contradiction to all their former maxims. Leopold, the grandfather of the present queen of Hungary, the most bigoted prince of his age, joined heartily in every measure that could aggrandise the house of Hanover; because he thereby secured his interest in England. His two sons, except in a few unnatural starts, followed the same maxims for the same reason; but France has had address enough to suppress the natural jealousy of her ancient rival, and now the object of its terror is changed. Germany is now truly destroying itself, and feels all the miseries of a civil war, without expecting a change for the better; which is generally the effect of intestine commotions.





Chapter V.—Of The United Provinces

We now take our leave of Germany and proceed to the United Provinces; but in reality provinces united only in name. Perhaps their importance in the government of the European republic is now nothing: their spirit is lost, or directed into wrong channels; their councils are factious or direct wrong operations; they let individuals batten on the spoils of their constitution; with all the feebleness of luxury, they indulge all the vanity of unperforming threats and inactive resentment. France is not only now their neighbour but their master, prepared to pour in its myriads upon their little spot of ground, once saved from the sea, and now in danger of as formidable a deluge. No longer do we see there the industrious citizen planning schemes to defend his own liberty and the liberty of Europe, but the servile money-meditating miser, who desires riches to dissipate in luxury, and whose luxuries make him needy. All the spirited memorials presented them on the part of Great Britain to vindicate her honour and their own; all the warm remonstrances made them by their best patriots, have produced nothing but new cause for discontent and faction, and fresh instances of a selfish spirit and a desire of being slaves. What shall we think of such a people? or shall we give up their case as desperate? By no means! Calamity may again reduce them to their pristine virtue; and as here light follows darkness, their potent neighbour will not be long ere he gives them reason to summon all their constancy and all their courage. Their beautiful palaces, gay equipages, and all the gilded trappings that adorn inventive luxury, will only serve to invite the invader; for never did history furnish a single instance of a country very wealthy and very weak, that was not at last the prey of its more potent and poorer neighbours. But still I say, their calamity may bring them to an exertion of their former virtue; for in no country is that political maxim more likely to take place—that dominion is to be maintained by the same arts with which it was acquired. Like the old Romans, they owed their rise to oppression; and when the like circumstances returned, they had recourse to the same measure, which was the election of a Stadtholder, and which saved them as effectually as that of a Dictator did the Romans. But the wanton exercise of the measure defeated its ends in both countries. While the Dutch had recourse to it only in times of extremity, it always answered the purposes expected from it; but as that distress was always brought upon them by the prevalence of French councils or arms in their country, there has still been a perpetual opposition between the people and their natural government, which is republican. The members who compose the body of the legislature, and who consider themselves as distinot from the people (the never-failing consequence of riches long continued in the same family), succeeding to their magistracies by a kind of neverfailing rotation, have ever been fond of the protection of France. The maxims of the De Witts, who were the first who may be properly said to have rendered the government of the United Provinces aristocratical, rivetted this principle in their government. On the other hand, the common people ever lean to the family of Orange and a stadtholdership; since by that means their liberties were first secured. The critical rise of William III. to that high office was effected by a violent convulsion in their state, and it long operated to salutary purposes for public liberty. The accession of the royal dignity to that of Stadtholder, his unabating zeal against France, and the sincere love he ever bore his country, rendered him the darling of that people. He bent all the subordinate branches of their government to the ply of his own favourite passion, which was the hatred of France; and he chanced to be happy in the choice of his creatures, for his spirit remained in that republic for some years after he was dead. The magistracy of Holland soon, however, resumed their ancient principles.





The superiority which the Duke of Marlborough obtained amongst them upon the death of King William was only apparent, and was in reality balanced by D'Albuquerque, and the other leading members of the republic; who were very well pleased that France was diminished in power, but invariably opposed all measures for carrying the war into the vitals of France, as the Duke of Marlborough and the other allies had one year actually projected. Had not the English, therefore, at this time, the utmost reason, upon any terms, for concluding a peace? The Dutch, it is certain, had infinite advantages through the continuance of that war; and though they opposed a peace, it was only to prolong the benefits they reaped from war; for certain it is, they have ever appeared desirous of involving England in quarrels, without sharing the danger themselves. Their merchants look upon those of England as rivals in trade, and consider war as the proper interval in which they may step in and monopolise the whole. But though immediate profit may be the consequence of such politics, their posterity will severely feel their defects; they will find England strong at sea, and capable of giving laws to the ocean, merely from a long habitude of war.

But to proceed: King George the First and his





friends continued to have a strong party in their government, which balanced the party that was ever in the French interest; and by this means the republic, though it made no acquisition in strength, lost but little of its former vigour, until the year 1726, when they began to lean entirely to the French interests; some through fondness and others through fear. The residenoe of Van Hoey, a man weak by nature, rendered more so by age, who was their ambassador in France, gave Cardinal Fleury an opportunity of bringing the great members of their government back to the French principles, which had been long sown in their republic. Still, however, the people had courage sufficient to thwart their governors, or at least to intimidate them from pursuing any measures avowedly in favour of France. The marriage of the Prince of Orange with the eldest Princess of England, still further contributed to suppress the French faction, and gave the republic once more an opportunity of resuming its former lustre. In the late war against France, they were brought with the utmost difficulty to take a part; but their visible backwardness in that war, to call it by no harsher a term, proved that the spirit of their government was averse to it. The people, among whom a love of country and the honour of their ancestors is always last remaining, plainly saw the treachery of their governors to the common cause, and were resolved once more to have recourse to a dictator, and the late Prince of Orange

Vol. ix—6





was elected Stadtholder. We shall not enter into any disquisition whether this creation was made at that period of distress that would justify it in point of sound policy; but his death, that happened soon after, blasted all the hopes the public had conceived of his virtues, which were undoubtedly as great as any that ever had existed in that family. The minority that succeeded, notwithstanding all the wise provisions made by the late princess, notwithstanding her virtues and abilities, has been of infinite prejudice to the cause of liberty in that country; and now the French party have got a complete victory, and seem to dictate every measure which is pretended to be enacted for public safety. This unfortunate commonwealth has already tamely submitted to the indignities of France; it has remonstrated against the encroachments of England; and has shown its weakness by its incapacity of redress. What, then, will be its fate when France has time to breathe from her present wars? Every slight pretence will be caught in order to pick a quarrel; for it is natural for mankind to desire fighting when they are sure to be conquerors. To whom, in such circumstances, can the Dutch fly for support? England is irretrievably alienated from her interests; and even though the politicians of England should be desirous of saving her from ruin, yet the people, who form a large part in our legislature, would dissent. In short, they must be left to themselves to feel all the miseries of present slavery, with the painful aggravation of a consciousness of former freedom.





Chapter VI.—Of Spain

Spain is the next country which deserves our notice; between which and England, such a correspondence subsists as will render it very prejudicial for either to be an enemy to the other. Spain, by nature and interest, is more closely connected with England than any other country whatsoever; however the disparity of religion, inclination, and manners may have interrupted the good understanding between them, which policy points out to both. The first connection which England had with Spain, in a commercial way, was through the dukes of Burgundy, who were at the same time kings of Spain. This was in the reign of our Henry the VII., when the treaty which has been called since by the name of the "great" and the "golden" treaty was entered into between the two courts. The provisions of that treaty secured to the Spaniards all the advantages of their American commerce as it then stood. Queen Elizabeth was by no means satisfied that it extended to an absolute exclusion of the English from trading in those parts, especially in those dominions that had been acquired by the Spaniards in the intermediate time; nor could she ever be thought to give up to the Spaniards that exclusive right of navigation to and from their own colonies, which they have ever since considered as so capital a point. Sir Robert Cecil, Earl of Salisbury, who negotiated the definitive treaty with Spain, at London, in the reign of James I., found great difficulties on this head. The nation was in great hopes that a person instructed as he had been by Queen Elizabeth, would have followed her maxims, and would have either acquired some new privileges for the English in that navigation, or at least have left the matter open; in which case they did not doubt of being able to make their party good against the Spaniards. But James being at all events resolved upon a peace with Spain, gave up to her the exclusive right of trading to her own colonies, in the same manner as had been practised till that time. Salisbury, who greatly dreaded an impeachment on this head, exulted in getting the matter settled in these indefinite terms; and to say truth, they left the English traders pretty much at liberty to make what constructions they pleased on the words of the treaty; since there were few places in Spanish America to which they had not traded.





Matters between Spain and England remained in this situation till, by the peace of Munster in 1648, Spain reasserted her exclusive right of trade and navigation to and from her American colonies, with all the other powers of Europe, excepting England, who had no plenipotentiary at those conferences. Cromwell, who always had nattered himself with the hopes of being one day master of Spanish America, availed himself of England being left out of that treaty, and strenuously insisted upon the privilege the English had to trade to the Spanish colonies. The Spaniards, who feared Cromwell more than they hated him, made him very extraordinary offers, if he would give up his claim, which they said was absolutely inconsistent with the very first principles of their monarchy; adding, in their peculiar manner of speaking, that the exclusive right to trade to their own colonies was one of the eyes of Spain, as the Inquisition was the other. Cromwell, however, obstinately insisted upon it, and several proposals were offered Spain, desiring peculiar privileges for the English all over Spanish America. There is some reason to think that Cromwell, had he lived, would have been able to effect this design, by making himself a moderator between France and Spain; and thus, while both were weakened by mutual animosity, he might have obtained from either, through threats or from friendship, the concessions he so much desired. Charles II. was somewhat inclined to revive the claims of England; but it was now begun to be perceived, that France was growing potent from the downfall of the Spanish power, and England judiciously interposed, in order to save Spain from ruin. This monarch, however, concluded two formal treaties with Spain; one in the year 1667, relating to the Spanish European trade; the other in the year 1670, relative to our trade in America. This treaty has been couched in terms so ambiguous, that upon its interpretation both courts have been at variance almost ever since. The subject is of such importance to both crowns that neither are willing to concede, and even the indefinite treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle has left it to future discussion. The part which the crown of Spain has acted in the present war has been wise, honest, and greatly to the advantage of both nations. A war with Spain may enrich individuals in Britain, but can never be of public utility; nay, it must be of the most terrible national consequences; as the marine of Spain, if acting vigorously in conjunction with that of France, might form a fleet that would endanger the empire of the seas to England.





Upon a review of what has been said, if England considers its successes in the present war, she will have the utmost reason to exult; but if the situation of the other states of Europe, she must feel all the terrors of painful apprehension. Such leagues, formed of the greatest and the most ambitious powers, look with the most inauspicious aspect on the liberties of Europe; and even allowing the small power opposed to such a combination ever so victorious, yet his own victories will in the end undo him. Like a sword long employed, he will be at last worn out; and glory alone can be the only advantage he may acquire. A prospect so gloomy cannot but fill the mind with sadness: no courage can resist multitudes, no prudence can ward off fortuitous events, and no virtue can secure its possessor from ruin. Glory, respect, and honour, are only the rewards of a few; and, though a hero should possess them in the most unbounded degree, still may the people be unhappy. After an expenditure of the most exorbitant sums of money; after a breach of every tie that can oblige mankind; after an effusion of blood that scarcely any other period can equal; after all the calamities, burnings, rapes, and desolations of war;—if after so frightful a picture of the present age, every power would sit down and be contented with the same state which they enjoyed before the war, how happy might Europe still be! But this we can hardly expect, while ambition on one hand and obstinacy on the other, prevent any accommodation; while every victory, instead of procuring overtures of peace, only gives spirits to prolong the war. While rapacious ministers find their account in prolonging, and the deluded people find glory in continuing war, what hopes can mankind have once more to repose in tranquillity; to talk again over the dangers of war, with all the pleasing satisfaction that past dangers will afford; to cultivate the arts of peace, and leave to posterity the truly valuable possession of newly invented arts, sciences carried nearer to truth, and a constitution nicely regulated by all the caution of political wisdom!





PREFACE *

THIS is an attempt to separate what is substantial and material, from what is circumstantial and useless in history. That of the late war forms the brightest period of any in the British annals, and the author has endeavoured to do it justice by the manner in which he has recorded the several transactions, and the impartiality he has observed.

As to the first, it is matter of opinion, and he must stand or fall by the judgment of his readers. His own intention acquits him of every charge with regard to the latter. He is sensible that, in many passages, he has the prepossessions of party to encounter; and the same must have been his fate had he adopted different opinions. He disclaims all systems in politics, and has been guided in his narrative by matters of fact only. In his reflections and conjectures, where his own lights failed him, he had recourse to those who were capable of giving him information; and he has the satisfaction to believe, that when the prejudices of party are buried with their authors, the following pages, whatever defects they may have in point of composition, will be acquitted of every imputation of partiality; as rational entertainment and undeviating candour has been his only object.



'To The Martial Review; or, A General History of the Late War. i2mo. 1763.





PREFACE AND FAMILIAR INTRODUCTION, TO THE STUDY OF NATURAL HISTORY

THE PREFACE 1

OF all the studies which have employed the industrious or amused the idle, perhaps Natural History deserves the preference. Other sciences generally determine in doubt, or rest in bare speculation; but here every step is marked with certainty; and, while a description of the objects around us teaches to supply our wants, it satisfies our curiosity.

The multitude of nature's productions, however, seems at first to bewilder the inquirer, rather than excite his attention; the various wonders of the animal, vegetable, or mineral world, seem to exceed all power of computation, and the science appears barren from its amazing fertility. But a nearer acquaintance with this study, by giving method to our researches, points out a similitude in many objects which at first appeared different; the mind by degrees rises to consider the things before it in general lights, till at length it finds nature, in almost every instance, acting with her usual simplicity.



1 To A New and Accurate System of Natural History, etc., by R. Brookes, M.D., Author of the General Practice of Physic. In six volumes. London: Printed for J. Newbery, at the Bible and Sun, in St. Paul's Churchyard. 1763.

Mr. Murray possesses one of Goldsmith's original receipts for a payment from Newbery on account of the Preface and Introduction.





Among the number of philosophers who, undaunted by their supposed variety, have attempted to give a description of the productions of nature, Aristotle deserves the first place. This great philosopher was furnished, by his pupil Alexander, with all that the then known world could produce to complete his design. By such parts of his work as have escaped the wreck of time, it appears that he understood nature more clearly and in a more comprehensive manner, than even the present age, enlightened as it is with so many later discoveries, can boast. His design appears vast, and his knowledge extensive; he only considers things in general lights, and leaves every subject when it becomes too minute or remote to be useful. In his History of Animals, he first describes man, and makes him a standard with which to compare the deviations in every more imperfect kind that is to follow. But if he has excelled in the history of each, he together with Pliny and Theophrastus have failed in the exactness of their descriptions. There are many creatures described by those naturalists of antiquity, which are so imperfectly characterised, that it is impossible to tell to what animal now subsisting we can refer the description. This is an unpardonable neglect, and alone sufficient to depreciate their merits; but their credulity, and the mutilations they have suffered by time, have rendered them still less useful, and justify each subsequent attempt to improve what they have left behind.





The most laborious, as well as the most voluminous naturalist among the moderns, is Aldrovandus. He was furnished with every requisite for making an extensive body of natural history. He was learned and rich, and during the course of a long life, indefatigable and accurate. But his works are insupportably tedious and disgusting; filled with unnecessary quotations and unimportant digressions. Whatever learning he had he was willing should be known, and, unwearied himself, he supposed his readers could never tire; in short, he appears an useful assistant to those who would compile a body of natural history, but is utterly unsuited to such as only wish to read it with profit and delight.

Gesner and Johnson, willing to abridge the voluminous productions of Aldrovandus, have attempted to reduce natural history into method, but their efforts have been so incomplete as scarcely to deserve mentioning. Their attempts were improved upon, some time after, by Mr. Ray, whose method we have adopted in the history of quadrupeds, birds, and fishes, which is to follow. No systematical writer has been more happy than he in reducing natural history into a form, at once the shortest, yet most comprehensive.





The subsequent attempts of Mr. Klein and Linnaeus, it is true, have had their admirers, but, as all methods of classing the productions of nature are calculated merely to ease the memory and enlighten the mind, that writer who answers such ends with brevity and perspicuity is most worthy of regard. And in this respect, Mr. Ray undoubtedly remains still without a rival: he was sensible that no accurate idea could be formed from a mere distribution of animals in particular classes; he has therefore ranged them according to their most obvious qualities; and, content with brevity in his distribution, has employed accuracy only in the particular description of every animal. This intentional inaccuracy only in the general system of Ray, Klein and Linnaeus have undertaken to amend; and thus by multiplying divisions, instead of impressing the mind with distinct ideas, they only serve to confound it, making the language of the science more difficult than even the science itself.

All order whatsoever is to be used for the sake of brevity and perspicuity: we have therefore followed that of Mr. Ray in preference to the rest, whose method of classing animals, though not so accurate, perhaps, is yet more obvious, and being shorter, is more easily remembered. In his lifetime he published his Synopsis Meihodica Quadrupedum ei Serpentini Generis, and, after his death there came out a posthumous work under the care of Dr. Derham, which, as the title-page informs us, was revised and perfected before his death. Both the one and the other have their merits; but as he wrote currente calamo, for subsistence, they are consequently replete with errors, and though his manner of treating natural history be preferable to that of all others, yet there was still room for a new work, that might at once retain his excellencies, and supply his deficiencies.





As to the natural history of Insects, it has not been so long or so greatly cultivated as other parts of this science. Our own countryman Moufett is the first of any note that I have met with who has treated this subject with success. However, it was not till lately that it was reduced to a regular system, which might be, in a great measure, owing to the seeming insignificancy of the animals themselves, even though they were always looked upon as of great use in medicine; and upon that account only have been taken notice of by many medical writers. Thus Dioscorides has treated of their use in physic; and it must be owned, some of them have been well worth observation on this account. There were not wanting also those who long since had thoughts of reducing this kind of knowledge to a regular form; among whom was Mr. Ray, who was discouraged by the difficulty attending it: this study has been pursued of late, however, with diligence and success. Reaumur and Swammerdam have principally distinguished themselves on this account; and their respective treatises plainly show that they did not spend their labour in vain. Since their time, several authors have published their systems, among whom is Linnasus, whose method being generally esteemed, I have thought proper to adopt. He has classed them in a very regular manner, though he says but little of the insects themselves. However, I have endeavoured to supply that defect from other parts of his works, and from other authors who have written upon this subject; by which means, it is hoped, the curiosity of such as delight in these studies will be in some measure satisfied. Such of them as have been more generally admired, have been longest insisted upon, and particularly caterpillars and butterflies, relative to which, perhaps, there is the largest catalogue that has ever appeared in the English language.





Mr. Edwards and Mr. Buffon, one in the History of Birds, the other of Quadrupeds, have undoubtedly deserved highly of the public, as far as their labours have extended; but as they have hitherto cultivated but a small part in the wide field of natural history, a comprehensive system in this most pleasing science has been hitherto wanting. Nor is it a little surprising, when every other branch of literature has been of late cultivated with so much success among us, how this most interesting department should have been neglected. It has been long obvious that Aristotle was incomplete, and Pliny credulous; Aldrovandus too prolix, and Linnaeus too short, to afford the proper entertainment; yet we have had no attempts to supply their defects, or to give a history of nature at once complete and concise, calculated at once to please and improve.





How far the author of the present performance has obviated the wants of the public in these respects, is left to the world to determine; this much, however, he may without vanity assert, that whether the system here presented be approved or not, he has left the science in a better state than he found it. He has consulted every author whom he imagined might give him new and authentic information, and painfully searched through heaps of lumber to detect falsehood; so that many parts of the following work have exhausted much labour in the execution, though they may discover little to the superficial observer.

Nor have I neglected any opportunity that offered of conversing upon these subjects with travellers, upon whose judgments and veracity I could rely. Thus comparing accurate narrations with what has been already written, and following either, as the circumstances or credibility of the witness led me to believe. But I have one advantage over almost all former naturalists; namely, that of having visited a variety of countries myself, and examined the productions of each upon the spot. Whatever America or the known parts of Africa have produced to excite curiosity, has been carefully observed by me, and compared with the accounts of others. By this I have made some improvements, that will appear in their place, and have been less liable to be imposed upon by the hearsay relations of credulity.





A complete, cheap, and commodious body of natural history being wanted in our language, it was these advantages which prompted me to this undertaking. Such, therefore, as choose to range in the delightful fields of nature, will, I natter myself, here find a proper guide; and those who have a design to furnish a cabinet, will find copious instructions. With one of these volumes in his hand, a spectator may go through the largest museum, the British not excepted, see nature through all her varieties, and compare her usual operations with those wanton productions, in which she seems to sport with human sagacity. I have been sparing, however, in the description of the deviations from the usual course of production; first, because such are almost infinite, and the natural historian who should spend his time in describing deformed nature, would be as absurd as the statuary who should fix upon a deformed man from whom to take his model of perfection.

But I would not raise expectations in the reader which it may not be in my power to satisfy: he who takes up a book of science must not expect to acquire knowledge at the same easy rate that a reader of romance does entertainment.

VOL. II—7





On the contrary, all sciences, and natural history among the rest, have a language and a manner of treatment peculiar to themselves; and he who attempts to dress them in borrowed or foreign ornaments, is every whit as uselessly employed as the German apothecary we are told of, who turned the whole dispensatory into verse. It will be sufficient for me, if the following system is found as pleasing as the nature of the subject will bear; neither obscured by unnecessary ostentation of science, nor lengthened out by an affected eagerness after needless embellishment.

The description of every object will be found as clear and concise as possible, the design not being to amuse the ear with well-turned periods, or the imagination with borrowed ornaments, but to impress the mind with the simplest views of nature. To answer this end more distinctly, a picture of such animals is given as we are least acquainted with. All that is intended by this is, only to guide the inquirer with more certainty to the object itself, as it is to be found in nature. I never would advise a student to apply to any science, either anatomy, physic, or natural history, by looking on pictures only; they may serve to direct him more readily to the objects intended, but he must by no means suppose himself possessed of adequate and distinct ideas, till he has viewed the things themselves, and not their representations.

Copper-plates, therefore, moderately well done, answer the learner's purpose every whit as well as those which cannot be purchased but at a vast expense: they serve to guide us to the archetypes of nature, and this is all that the finest picture should be permitted to do; for nature herself ought always to be examined by the learner before he has done.





INTRODUCTION, ETC.

Part I.—Of Quadrupeds In General, And Their Way

Of Living

When we turn our eyes to that variety of beings endued with life, which share with us the globe we inhabit, we shall find that Quadrupeds demand the foremost place. The similitude between the structure of their bodies and our own; those instincts which they seem to enjoy in a superior degree to the other classes that live in air or water; their constant services to man, or the unceasing enmity they bear him, all render them the foremost objects of his curiosity, the most interesting part of animated nature.

In the first ages of the world it is probable, that all living creatures were nearer an equality than at present. Man, while yet savage himself, was but ill-qualified to civilise the forest. While yet naked, unarmed, and without shelter, every wild beast was a formidable rival, and the destruction of such was the first employment of heroes. But when he began to multiply, and arts to accumulate, he soon cleared the plains of its brute inhabitants; he soon established an empire over all the orders of animated nature: a part was taken under his protection and care, while the rest found a precarious refuge in the burning desert of the howling wilderness.





The most obvious and simple division, therefore, of quadrupeds, is into the domestic and savage: by domestic I mean, such as man has taken into friendship, or reduced to obedience; by the savage, those who still preserve their natural independence and ferocity; who either oppose force by force, or find safety in swiftness or cunning.

The savage animal preserves at once his liberty and instinct, but man seems to have changed the very nature of domestic animals by cultivation and care. A domestic animal is a slave, which has few other desires, but those which man is willing to grant it. Humble, patient, resigned, and attentive, it fills up the duties assigned; ready for labour, and content with subsistence.

But not only its native liberty, its very figure is changed by the arts and industry of man: what an immense variety in the ordinary race of dogs, or horses; what a difference between the large English mastiff and the small Spanish lap-dog; yet the whole has been effected by the nature of the climate and food, seconded by the industry of man, in continuing the species without mixture.

As in external figure they bear evident marks of human cultivation, so is there also some difference in the internal structure of their bodies, •-The stomach of the domestic animal is not usually so large: for such receiving food at certain and expected intervals, and that but by little at a time, this intestine seems to contract to its contents, and fits the animal for the life it is obliged to lead.





Thus we, in some measure, see nature under a continual constraint, in those creatures we have taught to live about us; but it is otherwise when we come to examine the savage tenants of the forest or the wilderness; there every species preserves its characteristic form, and is strongly impressed with the instincts and appetites of nature. The more remote from the tyranny of mankind, the greater seems their sagacity: the beavers, in those distant solitudes where men have rarely passed, exert all the arts of architects and citizens; they build neater habitations than even the rational inhabitants of those countries can show, and obey a more regular discipline than ever man could boast; but as soon as man intrudes upon their society their spirit of industry and wisdom ceases; they no longer exert their social arts, but become patient and dull, as if to fit them for a state of servitude.

But not only their industry but their courage also is repressed by the vicinity of man. The lion of the deserts of Nubia, that has been only taught to measure his strength with weaker animals, and accustomed to conquer, is possessed of amazing courage; instead of avoiding man, as other animals, are found to do, he attacks whole caravans crossing the desert, and, when overpowered, retires still facing the enemy. But the lion of Morocco, which is a more populous country, seems to acknowledge a superiority, and is even scared away by the cries of women and children.





Wherever man approaches, the savage beasts retire; and it is thought, not without some share of reason, that many species of animals had once birth, which are now totally extinct. The elk, for instance, which we are certain was once a native of Europe, is now no longer, except in Canada. Those monstrous bones of the mammoth, as the Siberians call an animal which must have been at least four times as big as the elephant, which are dug up in that country, and which by no means belong to the whale, as has been falsely imagined, may serve to convince us, that there were once animals existing which have been totally extirpated. The histories of Aristotle and Pliny serve to confirm us in this opinion; for in them we find descriptions which have not their archetypes in the present state of nature.

It is in the forest therefore, and remote from man, that we must expect to find those varieties, instincts, and amazing instances of courage and cunning, which quadrupeds exert in a very high degree. Their various methods of procuring subsistence may well attract our admiration; and their peculiar conformation for the life in which they find greatest pleasure, is not less surprising. The rapacious animal is in every respect formed for war; yet the various kinds make their incursions in very different ways. The lion and tiger pursue their prey by the view alone, and for this purpose they have a most piercing sight. Others hunt by scent, while some lie in wait and seize whatever comes near them, or they are able to overpower.





The teeth of carnivorous animals differ in every respect from those which feed upon vegetables. In the latter, they seem entirely designed for gathering and comminuting their simple food; but in the rapacious kinds, for holding and tearing their prey. In the one, the teeth serve as grindstones, in the other, as weapons of offence. In both, however, the surfaces of the grinding teeth are unequal, with cavities and risings, which fit each other when the jaws are brought into contact. These inequalities serve the better to grind and comminute their food, but they grow smoother with age; which is the reason why old animals take a longer time to chew their food than those in the vigour of life.

The legs and feet of quadrupeds are admirably suited to the motion and exercises of each animal. In some they are made for strength only, and to support a vast unwieldy body, as in the elephant, the rhinoceros, and the sea-horse, whose feet in some measure resemble pillars. Deer, hares, and other creatures that are remarkable for swiftness, have theirs slender, yet nervous. The feet of some serve for swimming, as the otter and beaver; the toes of these animals are joined together with membranes like those of geese and ducks, which is a sufficient demonstration that they are designed to live in water as well as on land: though the toes of the forefeet of the beaver are not thus united, because they use them as hands. The feet of some are made for walking and digging, of which the mole is a remarkable instance; and others for walking and flying, as the bat. The legs of some are weak, and of others stiff and strong, that they may traverse the ice with less danger. The common goat, whose natural habitation is on the rocks and mountains, has legs of this kind, and the hoof is hollow underneath, with sharp edges, so that when become domestic, it will walk as securely on the top of a house, as on level ground. Many are shod with rough and hard hoofs, of which some are whole, and others are cloven; some again have only a callous skin, and these are composed of toes which supply the place of hands, as in all of the monkey kind. Many have only short nails, for their more ready and safe running or walking; while others have sharp and strong talons, as the lion, and most ravenous beasts, to destroy their prey.





The heads of quadrupeds also differ greatly from each other; for in some they are square and large, suitable to their slow motion, food, and abode; in others, slender and sharp, the better to fit them for turning up the earth, of which a hog is an instance. Some quadrupeds have long necks, and not very strong, serving chiefly to carry their mouths to the ground, in order to feed; in others they are shorter, brawny, and strong, as in moles and hogs, thereby the better to turn up its surface; while in general the quadrupeds that feed upon grass are enabled to hold down their heads, by a strong tendonous ligament, that runs from the head to the middle of their back; by the help of which the head, though heavy, may be held down a long while, without any labour, pain, or uneasiness to the muscles of the neck.





The stomach is generally proportioned to the quality of the animal's food: those who live upon flesh and such nourishing substances, have it small and glandular, affording such juices as are best adapted to digest and macerate its contents. On the contrary, ruminating animals, or such as chew the cud, who feed entirely upon vegetables, have four stomachs, all which serve as so many laboratories to prepare and turn their simple food into proper nutriment. In Africa, however, where the plants afford greater nourishment than in our temperate climate, several animals which with us have four, are there found to have but two. But in all, the difference in the manner of living seems to arise from the internal conformation; and each animal lives upon food more or less nourishing in proportion to the size of its intestines, which are to digest it.





In general, whatever be the food, nature seems finely to have fitted the creature for procuring it, though never without a proper exertion of its strength or industry. Large animals of the forest, such as the elephant and lion, want swiftness, and a distinguishing scent for catching their prey, but have strength to overcome it; others who want strength, such as the wolf and the fox, make it up by their cunning; and those to whom nature has denied both strength and speed, as the hound and the jackall, follow by the smell, and at last overtake their prey by perseverance. Thus, each species seems only possessed of one talent in perfection, so that the power of destruction in one class may not be greater than the power to escape in another.

Few wild animals seek their prey in the daytime, but about night the whole forest echoes with a variety of different howlings. That of the lion resembles distant thunder; the tiger and leopard's notes are something more shrill, but yet more hideous; while the jackall, pursuing by his scent, barks somewhat like a dog, and hunts in a pack in the same manner. Nor is it uncommon for the strongest animals to follow where they hear this cry begun; and when the jackall has hunted down the prey, to come in and monopolise the spotf. It is this which has given rise to the report of that little animal's being the lion's provider; but, in fact, the jackall hunts for himself alone, and the lion is an unwelcome intruder upon the fruits of his industry.





This is a common method with larger animals; yet their most usual way is to hide and crouch near some path frequented by their prey, or some water where cattle come to drink, and with a bound seize them instantly. The lion is said to leap twenty feet at a spring, and, if we can credit Father Tachard, the tiger goes still farther. However, notwithstanding this surprising force, it would often happen that they might perish for want of food, had not nature endowed them with an amazing power of sustaining hunger for a long time; for, as their subsistence is precarious, their appetites are complying. When once they have seized their prey, they devour it in the most voracious manner, often bones and all, and then retire to their retreats, continuing inactive till the calls of hunger again excite their courage and industry. But as all their methods of pursuit are counteracted by their prey, with all the arts of evasion, in this manner they often continue to range without success, supporting a life of famine and fatigue for eight or ten days successively. Beasts of prey seldom devour each other, nor can anything but the greatest degree of hunger induce them to it. But, in such extremities, and when hunger makes them less delicate, the weakest affords its antagonist a disagreeable repast. What they chiefly seek after is the deer, or the ox, those harmless creatures which are made to embellish nature; of which when caught they first suck the blood, and then devour the carcass; between such there is cause of enmity. Yet there are antipathies among the rapacious kinds, which render them enemies to each other, even though no ways instigated to it by hunger. The elephant and the tiger, the dog and the wolf, are mortal foes, and never meet without certain death to the weaker side.





When at Siam, says Father Tachard, I had an opportunity of seeing a combat between three elephants and a tiger. The place of engagement was in a sort of railed amphitheatre, and the elephants were defended by a kind of armour which covered their heads, and a part of their trunk; but as if this were not sufficient, the tiger was also restrained by cords from making the first onset. When one of the elephants approached, he began the combat by giving his enemy three terrible blows with his trunk on the back, which stunned the other so much, that he continued for some time as if insensible; but the instant he was let loose, he flew at the elephant with an hideous howl, and attempted to seize him by the trunk; this the elephant artfully evaded by wrinkling in his trunk, and then receiving his antagonist upon his armour, he in the most dexterous manner flung him up into the air. This served entirely to intimidate the tiger, who durst no longer face him, but made many efforts to escape; now and then trying to fly up at the spectators, but the three elephants now beginning to press him, they struck him such terrible blows, that they would soon have dispatched him, had not the signal been given for finishing the combat.





But to have a more distinct idea of the life of a beast of prey, let us turn to one among the number, the wolf, for instance, and view him in his native deserts. With the most insatiable appetite for animal food, nature seems to have granted him the most various means of satisfying it. Possessed of strength, agility, and cunning, he seems fitted for finding, overcoming, and devouring his prey; yet, for all this, the wolf often dies of hunger, for he is the declared enemy of man. Being thus proscribed, he is obliged to frequent the most solitary part of the forest, where his prey too often escapes him, either by swiftness or cunning, so that he is most frequently indebted to hazard alone for subsistence. He remains lurking whole days in those places where the lesser animals most frequently pass, till at last becoming desperate through want, and courageous through necessity, he ventures forth to attack such animals as have taken refuge under the protection of man. He therefore falls in among the fold, destroys all he meets, kills merely from a pleasure in slaughter, and, if this succeed, he returns again, till being wounded, or frighted by dogs or men, he ventures out only by night, ranges the fields, and destroys whatever he has strength to conquer. He has been often seen, when those sallies have proved unsuccessful, to return back to the woods and pursue the wild animals: not so much with the





hope of overtaking them himself, as in expectation of their falling a prey to some other of his own species, with whom he may come in to divide the spoil. In short, when driven to the last extremity, he attacks even man himself, and grown quite furious, encounters inevitable destruction.

Such are the beasts of the forest, which are formed for a life of hostility, and, as we see, possessed of various methods to seize, conquer, and destroy. Nor are such as are their destined prey less sagacious in their efforts to escape destruction. Some find protection in holes in which nature has directed them to bury themselves; others seek safety by their swiftness, and such as are possessed of neither of these advantages, generally herd together, and endeavour to repel invasion with united force. The very sheep, which seems the most defenceless animal of all, will yet make resistance; the females falling into the centre, and the males with their horns forming a ring round them. Some animals that feed upon fruits, which are to be found only at one time of the year, have the sagacity to provide against winter; thus the badger, the hedgehog, and mole, fill their holes with several sorts of plants, which enable them to lie concealed during the hard frosts of the winter, contented with their prison, which affords them safety. These holes are constructed with so much art, that the builders seem endowed with an instinct almost approaching reason. In general there are two apertures, one by which to escape, when an enemy is in possession of the other. The doublings of the hare, and the various tricks of the fox to escape the hounds, are not less surprising. Some animals have the power of raising such an intolerable stench, that no dogs will follow them; many creatures which herd together, place a sentinel upon the watch, to give notice of an approaching enemy, and take this duty by turns. These are the efforts of instinct for safety, and they are in general sufficient to repel the hostilities of instinct only; but no arts the wretched animal can use are sufficient to repress the invasions of man. Wherever he has spread his dominion, terror seems to follow; there is then no longer society among the inferior tenants of the plain; all their cunning ceases; all their industry is at an end; the whole is then only subsistence, and human art, instead of improving brutal sagacity, only bounds, contracts, and constrains it.





The wild animal is subject to few alterations, till he comes under the dominion of man. In their native solitudes they live still in the same manner; they are not seen to wander from climate to climate; the forest where they have been bred seems to bound and satisfy their desires; they seldom leave it, and when they do, it is only because it can no longer afford security. Nor is it their fellow brutes, but man they in such cases seem to avoid. From the former their apprehensions are less, because their means of escape are greater. In their fellow brutes they have an enemy to whom their powers are equal; they can oppose fraud to their force, and swiftness to their sagacity; but what can be done against such an enemy as man, who finds them out though unseen, and though remote destroys them!





We have observed, that among animals of the same kind there is little variety, except what is produced by the art of man; but we would have this observation extend only to animals of the same climate. As in the human species, many alterations arise from the heat or cold, and other peculiarities of the region they inhabit, so among brute animals the climate marks them with its influence, and in a few successions they entirely conform to the nature of their situation. In general it may be remarked, that the colder the country, the longer and warmer is the fur of each animal, to defend it from the inclemency of the season. Thus the fox and the wolf, which in temperate climates have but short hair, have it much longer in the frozen regions, near the north pole. Those dogs which with us have long hair, when carried into the hot tropical climates in a few years cast their thick covering, and assume one more fitted to the place. The elephant and rhinoceros, which live in the hottest countries, have no hair at all; while the beaver and the ermine, which are found in greatest plenty in the cold regions, are remarkable for the warmth and the fineness of their furs. There is one exception to this general rule, in the quadrupeds of Syria, which, though a hot country, are remarkable for the length and fineness of their hair; the Syrian cat, sheep, and other animals affording sufficient quantity to be manufactured into that stuff called camblet, so common over all Europe.





The quantity of food in any country, or its nutriment, adapted to each peculiar species, serves also to make a variety in the size of the respective animal. Thus the beasts which feed in the valley are much larger than those which glean a scanty subsistence on the mountains; such as live in those hot countries where the plants are much larger and more succulent than with us, are equally remarkable for their bulk. If Africa has been remarked to a proverb by antiquity, for its monstrous serpents, it is no less remarkable for its lions, its elephants, and leopards also. Their dispositions, too, seem to partake of the rigours of the climate; and being bred in the extreme of heat or cold, they show a peculiar ferocity, that neither the force of man can conquer, nor his adulations allay.

The same physical causes which have rendered the men of those wretched climates barbarous and unsocial, seem to extend their influence even to brutes. For ever where the men are most savage, the brutes are most fierce; the reasoning powers on one hand being less, while the active powers on the other being greater, the forces on

VOL. IX—8





both sides seem almost levelled to an equality, and in those regions brutes and men seem to struggle for divided dominion. All the attempts which have hitherto been made to tame the savage animals brought home from the pole or the equator, have proved ineffectual; while young the lion, and even the leopard, are harmless and gentle, but they acquire all their natural ferocity with age; catch at the hand that feeds them, and as they grow up become more dangerous and more cruel. A person who showed wild beasts about the country, some years ago, had confined a young mastiff and a wolf cub from Senegal in the same room. While young they played together, and seemed much delighted with each other's company; but as the wolf grew older, he began to acquire new fierceness, and they often had slight quarrels about their food, which was given them together. It always began upon the wolf's side, who, though there was much more than both he and the mastiff could possibly consume, yet still kept the mastiff away, and watched over the remainder. This ill-matched society therefore every day became more turbulent and bloody, till it ended in the death of the dog, whom the wolf caught at an unguarded moment, and tore in pieces.

Thus we find, that even among carnivorous animals, there are different dispositions, some generous and valiant, others cruel and cowardly: some animals are rapacious merely to satisfy their hunger, but the tiger, hyaena, and the panther, destroy whatever they meet, slay without distinction, and are cruel without necessity.





It has been observed, that the extensive deserts of Africa, lying between the tropics, produce the largest and fiercest animals, yet in the same latitudes in America the animals are in no wise so terrible. It may, indeed, be remarked in general, that all the quadrupeds of that new world are less than those of the old; even such as are carried from hence to breed there are often found to degenerate, but are never seen to improve. If with respect to size we should compare the animals of the New and the Old World, we shall find the one bear no manner of proportion to the other. The Asiatic elephant, for instance, often grows to above fifteen feet high, while the tapurette, which is the largest native of America, is not bigger than a calf of a year old. The llama, which some also call the American camel, is still less; nor is the bison, though really bulky, by any means large to appearance. Their beasts of prey also are quite divested of that courage which is so often fatal to man in Africa or Asia. They have no lions, nor properly speaking either leopard or tiger. Travellers, however, have affixed those names to such ravenous animals as are there found most to resemble those of the ancient continent. However, the cougar, the jaquar, and the jaquarette among them, are despicable in comparison of the tiger, the leopard, and the panther of Asia. The tiger of Bengal has been known to measure twelve feet in length, without including the tail; while the cougar, or American tiger, as some affect to call it, seldom exceeds three. All the animals therefore in the southern parts of America are different from those in the southern parts of the ancient continent; nor does there appear to be any common to both, but those, which being able to bear the rigours of the north, have travelled from one continent to the other. Thus the bear, the wolf, the reindeer, the stag, and the beaver, are known as well by the inhabitants of Canada as Russia; while the lion, the leopard, and the tiger, which are natives of the south with us, are utterly unknown in southern America.





But if the quadrupeds of America be smaller than those of the ancient continent, they are in much greater abundance; for it is a rule that obtains through nature, that the smallest animals multiply in the greatest proportion. The goat, imported from Europe to southern America, in a few generations becomes much less, but then it becomes more prolific, and instead of one kid at a time, or two at the most, generally produces five, six, and sometimes more. The wisdom of Providence in making formidable animals unprolific is obvious; had the elephant, the rhinoceros, and the lion the same degree of fecundity with the rabbit or rat, all the arts of man would soon be unequal to the contest, and we should soon perceive them become the tyrants of those who affect to call themselves the masters of the creation.1 Final causes are obvious, but as the great Bacon says, "Investigatio causarum finalium sterilis est, et veluti virgo Deo dedicata, nil parit;" such in fact produce no discoveries; it is for the efficient cause we should inquire; and yet such is the darkness of the subject, that we must be contented, in the present instance, only with the former. Upon anatomical inspection, the matrix of smaller creatures is evidently fitted to produce many at a time, while that of larger quadrupeds is adapted for the gestation of one alone, or of two at the most. As large animals require proportional supplies from nature, Providence seems unwilling to give new life, where it has denied the necessary means of subsisting.





In consequence of this pre-established order, the larger creatures, which bring forth but few at a time, seldom produce their species till they have acquired, or almost acquired, their full growth. On the other hand, those which bring forth many, engender before they have arrived at half their natural size. The horse and the bull come almost to their acme before reproduction; the hog and the rabbit scarcely leave the teat before they become parents themselves. The large animals also go with young in proportion to their size. The mare continues eleven months with foal; the cow nine; the wolf five; and the bitch nine weeks. In all, however, the young are produced by the female without haemorrhage, and mostly without pain, the intermediate litters being ever most fruitful.



1 " The reasons of this fecundity are not so easily assigned as the Creator's motives for this difference."—Goldsmith.





Whatever be the natural disposition of animals at other times, they all acquire new courage and fierceness in defence of their young. Even the mildest, if wild, will then resist and threaten the invader; but such as have force, and subsist by rapine, are at such times terrible indeed. The lioness seems more hardy than even the lion himself; she attacks men and beasts indiscriminately, and when she has overcome carries them reeking to her young, whom she accustoms betimes to slaughter. We are told by some travellers, but with what truth I will not take upon me to determine, that the hunters who find her cubs, and carry them off, have no other method to escape her pursuit, but by dropping one at some distance from the den, which finding, she takes care to carry back, before she attempts to rescue the rest, and so the hunter escapes with a part.

The first aliment of all quadrupeds is milk, which is a liquor at once both nourishing and easily digested; this being in carnivorous animals in much less quantity than others, the female often carries home her prey alive, that its blood may supply the deficiencies of nature in herself.

But their care in the protection of their young is not greater than their sagacity in choosing such months for bringing forth, as afford the greatest quantity of provision, suitable to the age and appetite of each peculiar kind. In general they couple at such times as that the female shall bring forth in the mildest seasons, such as the latter end of spring, or the beginning of autumn. The wolf and the fox, for instance, couple in December, so that the time of gestation continuing five months, they may have their young in April. The mare, which goes eleven months, admits the horse in summer, and foals in the beginning of May. On the contrary, all those which lay up provisions for the winter, as the beaver and marmotte, couple in the latter end of autumn, so as to have their young about January, for which severe season they have already laid in the proper supplies. This provisional care in every species of quadrupeds, of bringing forth at the fittest seasons, may well excite human admiration; in man the business of procreation is not marked by seasons, but brutes seem to decline indeterminate copulation, as if conducted less by appetite than the future subsistence of their offspring.





Their choice of situations too may be remarked; for in most of the rapacious kinds, the female takes the utmost precautions to hide the place of her retreat from the male, who, when pressed with hunger, would be apt to devour her cubs. She seldom therefore strays far from the den, and never returns while the male is in view, nor visits him again till her young are out of danger, or capable of resistance. Such animals as are of tender constitutions, take the utmost care to provide the warmest lodging for their young; those, on the contrary, that are hardy, and are found to subsist in northern climates, are not so cautious in this particular. The rapacious kinds bring forth in the thickest woods; the ruminant, with the various species of lesser creatures, choose some place in the neighbourhood of man; some choose the hollow of a tree, and all the amphibious kinds bring up their young by the water, and accustom them betimes to either element. There are, however, some animals which leave their brood to chance alone, and their own early instinct for their preservation; I mean the oviparous kinds, or those which bring forth eggs, such as the tortoise, the lizard, and the crocodile. These take no further care of their young than by burying their eggs in the sand, and the heat of the sun alone brings them to perfection. As soon as hatched, without any other guide than instinct, they immediately make to the water, though not without having their numbers diminished in their passage by such birds as make them their peculiar food.





All the kinds of oviparous animals are covered with shells or scales; those of the viviparous, or such as bring forth their young alive, with hides and hair. The oviparous are much more fruitful; a tortoise or a crocodile laying not less than an hundred eggs at a time. These, as being more imperfectly formed than animals of the viviparous kind, sooner arrive at a state of maturity; for in general it may be observed, that the more imperfect each animal is, the sooner it arrives at its greatest state of perfection. The lizard is oapable of providing for itself as soon as hatched; the otter swims in quest of food at one day old; the dog takes longer time; the horse and the lion are more slow in their advances; while man, the most perfect work of nature, labours under the longest imbecility.





But while I divide animals into viviparous and oviparous, perhaps it may be observed, that a distinction is made where nature has made none, and that all creatures are produced in the same manner, equally proceeding from eggs. The generation of animals has excited curiosity in all ages, and the philosophers of every age have undertaken to explain the difficulty. Hippocrates has supposed fecundity to proceed from the mixture of the seminal liquor of both sexes, each of which equally contributes to the formation of the incipient animal. Aristotle, on the other hand, would have the seminal liquor in the male alone to contribute to this grand effect, while the female only supplied the proper nourishment for its support. Such were the opinions of these two great men, and they continued to be adopted by physicians or schoolmen for a long succession of ages, with blind veneration, till Steno and Hervey, guided by anatomical inspection, perceived in every viviparous animal two glandular bodies near the womb, resembling that cluster of small eggs which is found in fowls; and from the analogy between both, they gave these also the name of ovaria. However, as they seemed detached from the womb, it was objected at first that such could contribute no way to the formation of the foetus; but upon more minute inspection, Fallopius, the great anatomist, perceived two tubular vessels depending from the womb, which, like the horns of a snail, had a power of erecting themselves, embracing the ovaria, and receiving the eggs in order to be fecundated by the seminal liquor. This discovery soon altered the opinion of philosophers; and as the followers of Aristotle ascribed the rudiments of the foetus to the male, the followers of Hervey gave it entirely to the female. This last opinion, therefore, was established in the schools a long time without much controversy, till Leuwenhoeck discovered that the seminal liquor in the male had numberless living creatures, each of which might be considered as a miniature of the future animal. The business of generation was now, therefore, given back to the male a second time, though not without long controversy, and some abuse. Succeeding speculators, willing to compound the matter, were of opinion, that the seminal animal might enter the egg predisposed for its reception; and thus both sexes might conspire in the formation. The subject offered infinite scope for conjecture. M. Buffon loved to speculate, and he was unwilling to let slip so fair an opportunity of speculation. He therefore broached a new theory; he found by microscopical inspection, that the seminal liquor, both of males and females, equally abounded with the moving beings, first taken notice of by Leuwenhoeck. These he takes not to be real animals, but living substances, which have the property in making a part in all organised bodies, without being organised themselves. All animals, he continues to observe, as well as vegetables, are composed of these living unorganised substances, a part of which are taken up for the animal's own support and growth, and the superfluity thrown off in the seminal liquor of both sexes, for the reproduction of other animals of the same species. This hypothesis, as well as all the rest, is embarrassed with unsurmountable objections,and only serves to show that too minute a pursuit of nature leads to uncertainty; in such cases, every last opinion serves to overturn the preceding, while itself only waits to be overturned by some succeeding speculation more pleasing, because more new. Happily for mankind, the most intricate inquiries are generally the most useless. Modest nature has concealed her secret operations from rash presumption; it may suffice man to be certain, that she always acts with uniformity and success. Though we cannot discover how animals are generated, we know that every species is still transmitted down without mixture, and that the same characteristic marks which distinguished them in the times of Aristotle and Pliny, divide them to this day. Creatures of different kinds may be brought to produce between them, indeed, an animal partaking something of each, yet different from either, but here the confusion ends; for this new being, this monster of nature, is incapable of continuing the breed, and is marked with perpetual sterility. Nor does this arise from the figure, for there is more difference between the mastiff and lap-dog, with respect to external shape, than between the horse and the ass; yet the animal produced between the two former is prolific, while the mule, which is begotten by the latter, continues unalterably barren.





But though nature has provided that every species of animals should be thus kept distinct, yet we have many reasons to believe, as has been observed before, that she has not been so solicitous for the preservation of them all. We have already taken notice of the mammoth, which is computed to have been at least five times as big as the elephant, and if so, might consequently require the produce of an immense tract for its subsistence. How so huge a body, therefore, could be supported upon earth, or if the bones once belonged to an inhabitant of the deep, how they came buried at such an immense distance as they are found from the sea, are questions that ignorance may ask, but sagacity never resolve; the use, and not the cause of things, is all allowed us here. 'T is sufficient for us that everything we see is good, and that all those good things have been granted for our enjoyment. A mind willing to employ itself in vain conjectures can never want subjects upon which to expatiate; thus for instance, whether brutes have souls? whether they reason? whether they have memory? or are only mere machines? these are topics that may employ the speculative, but that can never recompense the inquiry. They are questions concerning which we may form doubts, and ask questions, but can never have them resolved, till brutes themselves find language to inform us, and farther enlighten our philosophy.





Part II.—Of Birds In General

After quadrupeds, Birds hold the foremost rank in nature. Though they are incapable of the same docility with terrestrial animals, and are less imitative of human perfections, yet they far surpass fishes and insects, both in the structure of their bodies, and their sagacity. As in mechanics the most curious machines are generally the most complicated, so it is in anatomy: the body of man presents the greatest variety upon dissection; quadrupeds, less perfectly formed, discover it in their simplicity of conformation; the mechanism of birds is still less complex; fishes have yet fewer organs than they; while insects, more imperfectly than all, seem to unite the boundaries between animal and vegetable nature. Of man, the most perfect animal, there are but two or three species; of quadrupeds, the kinds are very numerous; in birds they are still greater; and in insects most of all.





Quadrupeds have some distant resemblance, in their internal structure, with man; but that of birds is entirely dissimilar. This animal seems wholly formed to inhabit the empty regions of air, in order that no part of nature might be left untenanted. Their wings, which are their principal instruments of flight, are formed for this purpose with the greatest exactness, and placed at that part of their body, which best serves to poise the whole, and support it, in a fluid that at first seems so much lighter than itself. The quills are at once stiff and hollow, which gives them the advantage of strength and lightness; the webs are broad on one side and more narrow on the other, both which contribute to the progressive motion of the bird, and the closeness of the wing. Thus each feather takes up a large surface but with inconsiderable gravity, so that when the wing is expanded, the animal becomes specifically lighter than air. The smaller feathers with which it is clothed, are disposed one over another in the exactest order, so as to he closer in proportion to the rapidity of the flight. That part of them which is next the skin is furnished with a soft and warm down, and that next the air with a web on each side of the shaft, each single beard of which is itself a feather. All birds that fly much, have their wings placed in the most proper part to balance their bodies in the air; those which have as much occasion for swimming as flying have their wings placed more forward, and those that are obliged to seek their food by diving, have their legs set more backward, and their wings still more forward than either of the preceding.





But as this lightness of the feathers might frequently be impeded by a shower of rain, or any other accidental moisture, by which means the bird might become an easy prey to every invader, nature has provided an expedient whereby their feathers are as impenetrable to the water, as by their structure they are to the air. All birds in general have a receptacle replenished with oil, something in the shape of a teat, and situated at the extremity of their bodies. This teat has several orifices, and when the bird perceives its feathers to be dry, or expects the approach of rain, it squeezes this teat with the bill, and strains from thence a part of the contained oil; after which, having drawn its bill successively over the greatest part of its feathers, they thus acquire a new lustre, and become impenetrable to the heaviest rains, for the water rolls off in large drops. Such poultry, however, as live for the most part under cover, are not furnished with so large a stock of this fluid as those birds that reside in the open air. The feathers of a hen, for instance, are pervious to every shower; whereas, on the contrary, swans, geese, ducks, and all such as nature has directed to live upon the water, have their feathers dressed with oil from the very first day of their leaving the shell. Thus their stock of this fluid is equal to their necessity of its consumption. Their very flesh contracts a flavour from it, which renders it in some so very rancid as to be utterly unfit for food; however, though it injures the flesh, it improves the feathers for all the domestic purposes to which they are generally converted.





Every part of their mechanism, as was before observed, seems adapted for the improvement of their flight; their bones are extremely light and thin and their muscles feeble, except the large pectoral muscle, by means of which they move their wings with such ease and rapidity. This very strong muscle fills up all that space on each side of the breast-bone, which, though small in quadrupeds, is in these large, broad, and externally of a very great surface; by means of this a bird can move its wings with a degree of strength, which, when compared to the animal's size, is almost incredible. No machines that human art can contrive are capable of giving such force to so light an apparatus; and for this reason alone the art of flying must remain one of those perfections which man may desire but can never attain; since, as he increases the force of his machine he must increase its weight also: the tail of birds serves to counterbalance the head and neck, guides their flight instead of a rudder, and greatly assists them either in their ascent, or when descending.

In these particulars birds differ from quadrapeds; yet of the former as well as the latter some live upon the flesh of animals, others upon vegetables, some wholly upon land, and others upon water. This diversity arises in some measure from the peculiar formation of each kind, and not unfrequently from the climate and soil. In all birds of the eagle, or rapacious kind, which live upon flesh, the beak, talons, and stomach are peculiarly formed. The oesophagus, or gullet, in such is found replete with glandulous bodies, which serve to dilute and macerate the prey as it passes into the stomach, which is always very large in proportion to the size of the bird, and generally wrapped round with fat, in order to increase its warmth and powers of digestion. The beaks of these not only serve them as instruments of subsistence, but also weapons of defence, being crooked at the end, and sometimes serrated at the edges. The talons are large and extremely tenacious, the muscles which contract the claw being infinitely stronger than those which expand it. Thus furnished for war, all of this kind spread terror wherever they approach. That variety of music which but a moment before enlivened the grove, at their appearance instantly ceases. All is silent, every order of lesser birds seek for safety either in flight or obscurity, and some are even found to seek protection from man, in order to avoid their less merciful pursuers. It succeeds, however, happily, that each order of carnivorous birds seeks for such as are nearly of their own size. The sparrow-hawk pursues





VOL. IX—9





the thrush, and the falcon the bustard: nature has provided that each species shall make war only on such as are furnished with the adequate means of escape; the smaller birds avoid their pursuers by the extreme agility rather than the swiftness of their flight, and for their own peculiar enemy they are more than a match, the sparrow-hawk seldom seizing any except by surprise.

But all their arts of escape would be vain against the extreme rapidity of the falcon, or the eagle, and they find safety only from their minuteness, as these are found to fly only at greater game. Their usual manner of taking their game is by mounting into the air, and, observing where it lies, to dart downward upon it with amazing swiftness, and strike it dead with the blow. Nature, however, has provided the bird they pursue with sufficient instinct to endeavour still to be uppermost, so that both generally in this contest are found to mount above the view, and the bird which is endowed with the strongest wing and the most rapid flight comes off with conquest or safety.

Granivorous birds, or such as live upon fruits, corn, and other vegetables, have their intestines differently formed from those of the rapacious kind. Their gullet dilates just above the breastbone, and forms itself into a pouch, or bag, called the crop. This is replete with salivary glands, which serve to moisten and soften the grain and other food which it contains. These glands are very numerous, with longitudinal openings, which send forth a whitish and viscous substance. After the dry food of the bird has been macerated in the crop for a convenient time, it then passes into the abdomen, where, instead of a soft moist stomach, as in the rapacious kinds, the food is ground between two pair of muscles, commonly called the gizzard, covered on the inside with a stony ridgy coat, and almost cartilaginous. These, rubbing against each other, are capable of bruising and comminuting the hardest substances, their action being often compared to those of the grinding teeth in man and other animals. Thus the organs of digestion in quadrupeds are in a manner reversed in birds. Beasts first grind theirs with their teeth, and it passes into the stomach, where it is macerated and softened; on the contrary, birds of this sort first macerate it in the crop, and then it is ground and comminuted in the stomach. They are also careful to pick up sand and gravel, and other hard substances, not in order to grind the food, as is commonly imagined, in the stomach, but to prevent the too violent action of the opposite muscles against each other. Another variety in birds proceeds from the shape of their bills and toes, which are always adapted to the element on which they chiefly reside. Swans, geese, ducks, coots, and such other fowls as delight in the water, have their bills, necks, feet, and feathers wonderfully adapted to that kind of life they are to lead. The bill in some is of an extraordinary length, to enable them to search for their peculiar food, which is found only at the bottom of pools, marshes, and muddy places; thus in woodcocks and snipes, which by some are supposed to seek for worms in moorish grounds, but others, with more likelihood, affirm their food to be a fat unctuous substance which they suck out of the earth. The bills of curlews, and many other sea-fowls, are very long, in order to enable them to hunt for worms on the seashore, and to seek after small fish and their spawn. But the most common form of the bill in aquatic fowls is the broad spoon-bill, as in ducks, geese, and swans, the mechanism of which is at once adapted to contain and take up a great quantity of water, which is always swallowed with their food, and to skim the surfaces of standing weeds, in pools, which is generally the food they most delight in. Nor should it be forgotten, that, in all these, there are nerves which run to the ends of their bills, somewhat like those which in man terminate at the ends of his fingers, and which guide and improve his sense of feeling. Their legs and feet also are not less adapted to their peculiar way of living. Some have the leg very long, to enable them to wade in the water, and they are always bare of feathers a good way above the knee, the toes being separated so as the better to enable them to sink in the mud; but such as seek their food by swimming, have short legs and flat feet with webs between each toe, which in swimming they extend as fishes do their fins, and thus impel the water one way, to advance themselves in the opposite direction. Their necks also are generally long, so as to reach the bottom, and shovel up gravel and other substances which they swallow with their food.





The variety of methods which nature has taken to furnish the globe with creatures perfectly formed to indulge all their peculiar appetites, deserves our wonder; but wondering is not the way to grow wise. We shall find the generality of birds, though so well fitted for changing place with rapidity and ease, for the most part contented with the places where they were bred, and by no means exerting their desire in proportion to their endowments. The rook, if undisturbed, would never leave its native wood, the blackbird still frequents its accustomed hedge, and if ever they change, it is only from motives of famine or of fear. There are some sorts, however, called birds of passage, which remove to warmer or colder climates, as the air or their peculiar nourishment invites them. Thus the starling in Sweden, at the approach of winter, finding subsistence no longer in that kingdom, descends every year into Germany; and the hen chaffinches of the same country are seen every year to fly through Holland, in large flocks, to pass their winter in a milder climate. Others, with a more daring flight, traverse the ocean, and undertake voyages that might intimidate even human perseverance. Thus quails in the spring leave the burning heat of Africa for the milder sun of Europe, and when they have passed the summer with us, steer their flight back, to enjoy in Egypt the temperate air which they can no longer find with us. They often fly in such numbers, that to mariners at sea they appear to cover the skies like a cloud, and sometimes, wearied by the length of their flight, drop down upon deck, an easy prey to the spectators.





From some accounts published in the Philosophical Transactions, it would seem that swallows do not migrate in the same manner, but continue torpid all the winter; but I think the testimonies in favour of their migration are more cogent than those against it. All those who have sailed to the tropical climates, are convinced, by every day's experience, that they are seen flying in large flocks, in order to enjoy near the equator a warmer air. But not to enter into a discussion of little importance, wild ducks and cranes, at the approach of winter, generally go in search of milder climates, and assemble together for that purpose at a certain time of the year. Nor does this seem to be the deliberation of a day; they sometimes assemble and part different ways, in order to meet a second time; however, at length, as if the migration were unanimously resolved upon, they rise all at once and decamp in a body. It is not unpleasing to observe the order of their flight. They generally range themselves into one large column, or sometimes forming two columns, joining in an angle like the letter V, while the fowl which makes the point seems to cleave the air to facilitate the passage of those which are to follow. But it continues this laborious employment only for a certain time; after which, falling back into the rear, another takes the place. The prodigious length of their passage is surprising, and how they support themselves in the flight; but the regularity of their motions is not less admirable, and that spirit of society with which they seem obedient to laws for the general welfare. Both young and old are always found at the place of general rendezvous, nor are they ever at a loss to take the direct road to their destined stations.





Thus there are some birds which may properly be called the inhabitants of every part of the earth; but in general every climate has birds peculiar to itself alone. The feathered inhabitants of the temperate zone chiefly excel in the music of their notes; those of the torrid zone in the bright and vivid colours of their plumage; the frigid zone, on the other hand, where the seas abound with fish, are stocked with fowls of the aquatic kind, in much greater variety than are to be found in our parts of Europe.

In general, every bird resorts to those climates where its food is found in plenty, and always takes care to hatch its young at those places, and in those seasons, where provisions are in the greatest abundance. The large birds, and those of the aquatic kind, choose places as remote as possible from man, as their food is different from that which is cultivated by human industry; some birds, which have only the serpent to fear, build their nests in such a manner as to have them depending at the end of a small bough, and the entrance from below; but the little birds, which live upon fruits and corn, are found in the greatest plenty in the most populous countries, and are too often unwelcome intruders upon the fruits of human labours. In making their nests, therefore, the little birds use every art to conceal them from man, while the great birds use every precaution to render theirs inaccessible to wild beasts, or vermin. The unerring instinct which guides every species in contriving the most proper habitation for hatching their young, demands our observation. In hot tropical climates nests of the same kind are made with less art, and of less warm materials, than in the temperate zone, for the sun in some measure assists the business of incubation. In general, however, they build them with great art, and line them with such substances as keep or communicate warmth to their eggs. Nothing can exceed their patience while hatching; neither the calls of hunger, nor the near approach of danger, could drive them from the nest; and though they have been found fat upon beginning to sit, yet before the incubation is over the female is usually wasted to a skeleton. The male ravens and crows, while the hens are sitting, take care to provide them with food; while other birds, such as pigeons and sparrows, take their turns, the male relieving the female at proper intervals. Sometimes, however, the eggs acquire a degree of heat too great for the purposes of hatching; in such cases, the hen leaves them to cool a little, and then returns with her usual perseverance and pleasure. When the young brood comes forth, nothing can exceed the industry and the seeming pride of the parents; the most timid becomes courageous in their defence, and provides them with food proper for their age or kind. Birds of the rapacious kind become at this season more than ordinarily ravenous, and those of the granivorous sorts discontinue their singing, entirely taken up in procuring subsistence for their young.





Of all birds the ostrich is the greatest, and the American humming-bird the least. In these the gradations of nature are strongly marked, for the ostrich in some respects approaches the nature of that class of animals immediately placed above him, namely quadrupeds, being covered with hair, and incapable of flying; while the humming-bird, on the other hand, approaches that of insects. These extremities of the species, however, are rather objects of human curiosity than use; it is the middle orders of birds, which man has taken care to propagate and maintain; these largely administer to his necessities and pleasure, and some birds are even capable of attachment to the person that feeds them. How far they may be instructed by long assiduity, is obvious from a late instance of a canary-bird, which was shown in London, and which had been taught to pick up the letters of the alphabet at the word of command. Upon the whole, however, they are inferior to quadrupeds in their sagacity; they are possessed of fewer of those powers, which look like reason, and seem, in all their actions, rather impelled by instinct than guided by choice.





Part III.—Of Fishes

The productions of nature, as they become less perfect, grow more numerous. When we consider what numberless sorts have hitherto escaped human curiosity, what a variety of Fishes are already known, and the amazing fecundity of which they are possessed, we are almost induced to wonder how the ocean finds room for its inhabitants. A single fish is capable of producing eight to ten millions of its kind in a season; but nature has happily obviated this hurtful increase, by making the subsistence of one species depend on the destruction of another. The same enmities that subsist among land animals prevail with equal fury in the waters, and with this aggravation, that by land the rapacious kinds seldom devour each other, but in the ocean it seems an universal warfare of each against each. The large devour the small even of their own species, and these, in their turn, become the tyrants of such as they are able to destroy.





Fishes in general may be divided into those that breathe through lungs, and have red blood circulating through their veins; and those that respire through the gills, and whose circulating juices are limpid and colourless. The first sort, which comprehends all of the cetaceous or whale kind, are possessed of a greater degree of heat than the element they inhabit, are frequently obliged to come to the surface of the water to respire fresh air, and, though they are properly inhabitants of the ocean, yet are capable of being suffocated in it. They use coition, bring forth their young alive, nourish them with their milk, and resemble quadrupeds as to their internal conformation. The latter sort, on the contrary, are as cold as the element in which they live, they breathe only in the water, they produce by spawn which is impregnated by the male, and are for the most part covered with scales. Between these there is yet an intermediate kind, which is called the cartilaginous. These breathe through the gills like the latter, and bring forth their young alive like the former. Instead of bones, their muscles are supported only by cartilages, or gristles, and from this conformation they continue to grow larger as they grow older; for, different from every other animal, their bones never acquire such a certain degree of hardness as to hinder their future growth.

The number of the cetaceous and cartilaginous kind, however, is but small when compared to the other kind already described, in which are to be found a greater quantity of small bones, which serve to strengthen and support the muscles. The bones of a single carp, for instance, amount to four thousand three hundred and eighty-six. These are the kinds generally to be found in fresh water; these have been most frequently subject to human inspection, and from them our descriptions are more usually taken.





The shape of most fish is much alike, sharp at either end, and swelling in the middle, by which they are thus able to traverse the fluid they inhabit with greater ease. That peculiar shape which nature has granted most fishes we endeavour to imitate in such vessels as are designed to sail with the greatest swiftness; however, the progress of a machine moved forward in the water by human contrivance is nothing to the rapidity of an animal destined to reside there. The shark overtakes a ship in full sail with ease, plays round it, and abandons it at pleasure. The tail of all fish is extremely flexible, and furnished with muscles that take up near a third part of the whole body. In this lies their greatest strength, and by bending it to the right or left they repel the water behind, and advance with the desired swiftness. The motion of this is in some measure assisted by the fins, but their chief use is to poise the body, and at will to stop its motion. This is proved by experience; for when the fins are cut off, the fish reels to and fro, no longer able to keep its natural posture. These therefore only keep the fish steady; when it would turn to the right it moves the fins on the left side, when to the left it plays those on the right; the tail, however, is the grand instrument of progressive motion.





As all animals that live upon earth, or in the air, are furnished with a proper covering to keep off external injury, so all that live in the water are covered with a slimy glutinous matter, that, like a sheath, defends their bodies from the immediate contact of the surrounding fluid. Beneath this is generally found a coat consisting of strong scales, and under that, before we come to the muscular parts of the body, an oily substance, which supplies the requisite warmth and vigour.

When we examine a fish's scale through a microscope, it is found to consist of a number of concentrical circles, one within the other, in some measure resembling those which appear upon the transverse section of a tree, and, in fact, offering the same information. For, as in trees we can tell their age by the numbers of their circles, so in fishes we can tell theirs by the number of circles in every scale, reckoning one ring for every year of the animal's existence. M. Buffon, by this method, found a carp, whose scales he examined, to be not less than a hundred years old; a thing almost incredible, had we not several accounts in other authors, which tend to confirm its veracity.

That fish are extremely long-lived, appears from





the nature of the element in which they breathe; in this they are not subject to those sudden changes which terrestrial animals hourly experience; theirs is an uniform existence, their movements without effort, and their life without labour; so that all their dangers and inconveniences arise not from the infirmities of nature, but each other's rapacity. But though they are formed entirely for living in the water, yet still they are unable to subsist without air. If a pond, in which they are usually kept, be covered over with ice, a part of it must be broken to let in fresh air, otherwise the fish would die. All water containing a certain quantity of air, fish have an admirable contrivance in their gills, of separating that from their native element. The air thus inspired, probably assists in circulating their fluids, as with other animals; but there is one advantage which it manifestly grants them, namely, that of sinking or rising in the water, as pleasure or necessity incites; when they are inclined to rise, they dilate an air-bladder, with which nature has furnished them, and thus increasing their bulk, without adding to their weight, they become lighter than the surrounding fluid. On the contrary, when this air-bladder is contracted, their body contracts in proportion, and they sink. That this is the true use of the airbladder, and that it is not, as some have supposed, only a reservoir of air, for the fish to breathe from while it continues under water, has been shown by experiments; thus we see the fish breathe our atmosphere; but, what will appear still more extraordinary, they have been kept alive and fattened, after having been taken out of the water. Carp, when hung up in a cool cellar, in a small net, and covered with wet moss, their heads however being at liberty, may be fed and fattened with white bread steeped in milk; an experiment easily tried, and which has often been practised with success in Holland, as well as at home.





The eyes of fish are generally flat, which seems most suitable to the element in which they live. Their vision, however, is probably very indistinct, at least it appears so from the experiments I have been able to make upon their eyes, by fixing them in the apparatus of a camera obscura. They seem, likewise, to have but an obscure perception of sounds, and probably they receive this sensation, by the tremors of the element in which they live, operating rather upon their whole system, than by any mechanism adapted for that purpose. Their senses, therefore, seem no way exquisite, and their pleasures are almost entirely confined to the satisfaction they find in appeasing their hunger. It is this appetite alone which impels them to encounter every danger; their rapacity seems insatiable; even when taken out of the water, and expiring, they greedily swallow the very bait by which they were allured to their destruction.

As they are thus extremely voracious, nature seems to have supplied them with proper means for satisfying their appetite to the utmost extent of indulgence. They are all furnished with teeth, or some other contrivance which answers the same purpose. The maw is in general placed next the mouth, and though possessed of no sensible heat, yet is endued with a surprising faculty of digestion. Those of the voracious kind swallow not only others like themselves, but even prawns, crabs, and lobsters, shells and all, without experiencing any manner of inconvenience. This amazing faculty in their cold maw, serves evidently to prove, that heat is not the cause of digestion in the stomach of man, or other animals; the cause of that is perhaps inextricable, the operations of nature are past finding out, and doubts, instead of knowledge, rise upon every inquiry.





As fishes are thus formed for seizing and devouring each other, and as they are pressed by unceasing hunger, we may easily imagine that they lead a life of continued hostility, of violence, and evasion. It is natural to suppose that the smaller fry stand no chance in this unequal combat; their usual method of escaping, therefore, is by swimming into those shallows where the great ones are afraid or unable to pursue. Here they become invaders in turn, and live upon the spawn of larger fishes, which they find floating upon the surface of the water. The mussel, the oyster, and the scallop, lie in ambush at the bottom, with their shells open, and whatever animal inadvertently approaches into contact, they at once close their shells, and it becomes an easy prey. The flat fish, in general, watch on the mud, till the females of other kinds deposit their spawn in holes at the bottom, and upon their retiring, come forth to feast upon the spoil.





Nor is their pursuit, like that of terrestrial animals, confined to a single region, or to one effort; shoals of one species follow those of another, through vast tracts of the ocean, from the vicinity of the pole even down to the equator. Thus the cod, from the Banks of Newfoundland, pursues the whiting, which flies before it even to the southern shores of Spain. Such a pursuit as this may probably be the cause of the annual return of herrings and pilchards to our own coasts, where they come in an abundance that to some may appear incredible; nothing being more common on the coasts of Cornwall, than to take five or six thousand hogsheads of pilchards at one single inclosure. This return of fish to the British coasts, is, however, of no very long continuance, for about a hundred and fifty years ago, the herring shoals were found along the northern coasts of Germany; but those they have since forsaken, and in those places where the Germans once caught them in immense quantities, there are at present, without any visible reason, none to be found.

Thus we find another analogy between these and terrestrial animals. As in birds, so some sorts of these may be called fish of passage, and others indigenous. The herring first has its station towards the north of Scotland, from whence they

VOL. IX—10





take their way regularly every year, and at length arrive in the British Channel. Their voyage is performed with the utmost regularity. The time of their departure is fixed from the month of June to August, and they assemble always together, before they set out. There are never any stragglers from the general body, for when they have passed any place, there are none left remaining. It would be vain to assign the cause of these migrations. Whether it proceeds from the fear of pursuers, or from a desire of propagating their kind in greater security; whether they find pleasure in the change, or whether this long voyage is undertaken in quest of food, is a subject that might supply much conjecture, and little satisfaction. Certain it is, their numbers are astonishing; they satisfy, in their passage, the rapacity of all the voracious kinds, and when they arrive at their appointed stations, they there fall to the share of man, and make the food of the poor, for a certain season, throughout all Europe. But this consumption, how great soever, only serves to counterbalance their surprising fecundity, which would, otherwise, overstock the element assigned them for their support. The number of eggs contained in the roe of a single cod, and computed by Leuwenhoeck, amounted to nine millions three hundred and forty-four thousand; which, if permitted in every individual to come to maturity, would rather obstruct than replenish nature. But two wise purposes are answered by this amazing increase; it perserves the species whatever may happen, and serves to furnish the surviving fish with a sustenance adapted to their conformation.





They seem all, except the cetaceous kind, entirely divested of those parental pleasures and solicitudes which so strongly mark the characters and conduct of the more perfect terrestrial animals. They do not use coition; for though the male sometimes seems to join bellies with the female, yet as he is unfurnished with the instruments of generation, his only end by such an action is to emit his impregnating fluid upon the eggs, which at that time fall from her. His attachment seems rather to the eggs, than the female; he pursues them often, as they float down along the stream, and carefully impregnates them one after the other. Sometimes the females dig holes in the bottoms of rivers and ponds, and there deposit their spawn, which are impregnated by the male as before.

All fish have a peculiar season to deposit their spawn. They in general choose the hottest months in summer, and prefer such waters as are somewhat tepified by the rays of the sun. They then leave the deepest parts of the ocean, which are always most cold, approach the coasts, or swim up the rivers of fresh water, which are warm by being shallow. When they have deposited their burthens, they then return to their old stations, and leave their spawn, when come to maturity, to shift for themselves. These at first escape by their minuteness and agility. They rise and sink much sooner than grown fish, and can swim in much shallower water. But with all these advantages, scarce one in a thousand survives the various dangers that surround it; the very male and female, that have given it life, are equally dangerous and formidable with the rest, for every fish is the declared enemy of all it is able to devour.





Some kinds of fishes are found to contain the parts of both sexes in one individual; thus there have been discovered hermaphrodite carps, breams, and roaches; but there is a kind of fish not yet taken notice of, which, whether male or female, has the parts of generation double. These are the crustaceous kinds, such as lobsters and crabs, which differ from testaceous, or shell-fish, in this, that the crust, or coat, with which they are covered, may be bent inwards, or otherwise bruised, without breaking. Thus do these animals seem different from all other; for as we have our muscles supported by bones on the inside, these, on the contrary, have theirs without. As they are not designed for swimming, however, they have no air-bladders, as other fish, but creep along the bottom, and devour whatever they seize, not excepting each other. They regularly once a year, and about the beginning of May, cast their old shell, and nature supplies them with a new one. Some days before this necessary change, the animal ceases to take its usual food. Just before casting its shell it rubs its legs against each other, and uses other violent motions of the body. It then swells itself in an unusual manner, and by this the shell begins to divide at its junctures, between the body and the tail. After this, by the same operation, it disengages itself of every part, one after the other, each part of the joints bursting longitudinally till the animal is quite at liberty. This operation, however, is so violent and painful, that many of them die under it; those which survive are feeble, and their naked muscles soft to the touch, being covered with a thin membrane, but in less than two days this membrane hardens in a surprising manner, and a new shell, as impenetrable as the former, supplies the place of that laid aside.





Such is the life of these animals in their own element; but with respect to the use they are of to man, their flesh serves him for aliment, their fat for oil, their skins for different purposes; of their sounds we make isinglass, and the stony concretions which were found in their bodies, were once thought to conduce to his health in medicine. Of fresh-water fish, those that have been fed in swift and rapid rivers are reckoned most wholesome; those which feed in ponds, or muddy stagnated lakes, are generally worst, as their flesh contracts a flavour from the place where they are bred. Luxury, however, has gone vast lengths in improving the flavour and fat of fish by castration; but it would ill become one who lays claim to humanity, to instruct gluttony in this vile art of torturing animals; the philosopher should ever stop when his labours begin to open new avenues to sensuality.





Those who have attempted accuracy in classing the productions of nature, have only embarrassed their works by their endeavours to arrange them methodically. To what order of beings the serpent, for instance, may be referred, whether to the fishes, the lizard, or the insects, is not yet settled among naturalists. The subject of their arrangement, however, is of no great importance, it being sufficient for the purposes of utility and information, if they are accurately described. Like fishes, they may be divided into viviparous and oviparous; of the former are all of the viper kinds, of the latter those of the common snake. The former, in our own country, contain a poison lodged under each fang of the upper jaw; the latter are no ways venomous. With us they grow to no great length; but in the warm latitudes of America they are sometimes seen from twelve to twenty-four feet long.

It would be vain to attempt assigning the uses of most of these noxious and formidable reptiles. Though the flesh of the viper has been converted to salutary purposes in medicine, yet in the countries where they abound, man is found to suffer more from their noxious qualities, than he is benefited by their medicinal virtues. Providence, however, in some measure, seems to secure him from the dangers of those which are most fatal: the rattlesnake, for instance, whose bite is mortal, warns him of its vicinity, by sounding its rattles; the most formidable avoid his approach, and seldom attack him without former provocation. In some countries the serpent kind are even rendered useful, and, like cats, employed for the purposes of destroying domestic vermin. Whether Providence intended that all things should be for man's use, is a question we cannot resolve, as we are ignorant of the designs of Providence. It is sufficient for us to know, that by granting us such superior powers to all other animals, it has, in fact, rendered such of them as we think proper to employ, entirely subservient to all the purposes of our pleasures or necessities.





Part IV.—Of Insects

Those animals, which by their size chiefly attract our attention, are but the smallest part of animated nature; the whole earth swarms with living beings; every plant, every grain and leaf, supports the life of thousands. Vegetables seem, at first sight, to be the parts of organised nature which are produced in the greatest abundance; but upon minuter inspection, we shall find each supporting numberless minute creatures who fill up the various gradations of youth, vigour, and old age, in the space of a few days' existence.





Vegetables are generally produced but once in a season; but among insects, especially of the smaller kinds, a single summer suffices for several generations. These, therefore, would multiply in a greater abundance than the plants on which they subsist, but that they are destroyed by other animals, and often by each other; the spider feeds on the fly; the birds upon the spiders; and they, in turn, make the food of man and every beast of prey.

Some insects as to their conformation are composed of several rings, joined together by a membrane, which is the usual form of the body in grubs, worms, and caterpillars. Unlike birds, who traverse the air with such rapidity, these humble animals, seemingly less favourites of nature, move forward but slowly. The whole body consists of a chain of annular muscles, whose orbicular fibres being contracted, render one of the rings that was before ample and dilated narrow and long. The fibres of these rings are found to be spiral, as are their motions in a great measure, so that by this means they can the better bore their passage into the earth. Their crawling motion may be explained by a wire wound round a walking-cane, which when slipped off, and attempted to be lengthened, has an elastic contraction of one ring to the other. In like manner the earthworm, having shot out or extended its body, lays hold upon some substance with its small feet, and so brings onward the hinder part of its body.





Caterpillars have feet both before and behind, which not only enable them to move forward by a sort of steps made by their fore and hinder parts, but also to climb up vegetables, and to stretch themselves out from the boughs and stalks to reach food at a distance. Behind, their broad palms are beset almost round with sharp small nails, to hold and grasp whatever they are upon; likewise before, their feet are sharp and crooked, by which they can lay hold of leaves, while their hinder parts are brought up thereto. Reptiles that have many feet may be observed to move them regularly one after another, and from one end of the body to another, in such a manner that their legs in walking make a sort of undulation; and by this means they move much swifter than one would imagine. The motion of snails is performed in a different manner; they have a broad skin along each side of the belly, which has an undulating motion, which, with the help of the slime that covers their bodies, they can move slowly forward, and adhere to every surface at pleasure.

The second sort of insects are flies of various kinds, whose bodies are covered by small plates not unlike our ancient armour, the pieces of which are lengthened by unfolding, and shortened by running over each other. These lead a more luxurious life, tranfer themselves from place to place with rapidity, and spend their little existence in feasting and propagating their kind.





The third sort are ants, spiders, and others, whose bodies are divided into two or three portions, joined by a sort of ligament. Of all the race of reptiles these seem to be endowed with the greatest share of sagacity. The wisdom of the ant, and its well-formed commonwealth, is too well known to be insisted on; but the spider, though it leads a solitary and rapacious life, seems endowed with even superior instincts. Its various artifices to ensnare its prey, and, when no longer able to supply a new web itself, the stratagems it lays to get possession of that belonging to another, are evidences of its cunning.

The minuteness of insects may render them contemptible in the eyes of the unthinking; but when we consider the art and mechanism in so minute a structure, the fluids circulating in vessels so small as to escape the sight, the l^eauty of their wings and covering, and the manner in which each is adapted for procuring its peculiar pleasures, we shall find how little difference there is between the great and the little things of this life, since the Maker of all has bestowed the same contrivance in the formation of the elephant and the ant.

The structure of the eye in insects is remarkably different from that of other creatures in several respects. It is defended by its own hardness against external injuries, and its cornea, or outer coat, is all over divided into lenticular facets, and through the microscope appears as a beautiful piece of lattice work. Each hole in this is of such a nature, that when looked through every object seems inverted. This mechanism alone supplies the place of the crystalline humour, which is not to be found in insects. Spiders have generally eight eyes, and flies may be said to have as many as there are perforations in the cornea. Other creatures are obliged to turn their eyes different ways to behold objects, but flies have them so contrived as to take in every object near them at once. In order to keep their eyes clean, they are provided with two antenna, or feelers. Some, however, are of opinion, that they clean their eyes with their fore-legs as well as the feelers; nor is this conjecture ill-founded, when we consider, that in some sorts, particularly the flesh-fly, the feelers are too short for this purpose, and therefore their legs alone can supply the defect.





The mechanism in the feet of flies, and other insects, deserves also our notice. The amphibious insects, which are obliged to live by land as well as water, have their hindmost legs made with commodious flat joints, having gristles on each side serving for oars to swim with, and placed at the extremity of the limb; but nearer the body there are two stiff supporters to enable them to walk when they have occasion. In those insects whose motions are performed by leaping, such as the grasshopper and cricket, their thighs are strong and brawny; those, on the contrary, which use their claws in perforating the earth, have such parts made with strength and sharpness, as in the wild bee, and the beetle. There are even some animals that convey themselves by methods to us unknown. Insects, which are generated in stagnant waters, are often found in new pits and ponds, and sometimes on the tops of houses and steeples. Spiders with their webs have been known to soar to a considerable height, having been seen above the highest steeple of York Minster. How these animals have been thus capable of conveying themselves from place to place is a phenomenon for which we are unable to account. Some years ago, it was the method to give reasons for every appearance in nature, but as philosophy grows more mature it becomes more cautious and diffident, nor blushes in many instances to avow its ignorance.





Those insects which are provided with wings have tendons, which distend and strengthen them; those which are provided with four, use the outermost rather as cases to defend the internal wings than as instruments in flying. When the insect is at rest, the inner wings are generally gathered up in the manner we close a fan, nor is it without some efforts that the little animal can unfold it. Those, however, whose wings are not cased in this manner, such as moths and butterflies, have them defended with feathers; for that beautiful variety of colours which we so much admire appears, through a microscope, to be nothing more than different coloured plumage, as artfully placed as in the wings of birds, but too minute to be discerned by the naked eye. Such insects as have but two wings have two little balls, or poisers, joined to the body under the hinder part of each wing, that serve to keep them steady, and in some measure counteract the changes of the air, which might at every variation carry them in its current. If one of these poisers be cut off the insect will soon fall to the ground; but if they are both cut, it will still fly, but yet in the direction of every breeze.





They are thus formed for motion, rather to provide sustenance than to avoid danger. As from their natural weakness they are the prey of every superior order of animals, they seem to find safety only in their minuteness or retirement; but even with every precaution they furnish out a repast to swallows and other birds, who, while to us they seem sporting in the air, are then employed in procuring their necessary subsistence. The insect itself, however, is at the same time in pursuit of some inferior order of insects; for there are the same hostilities among the smallest that there are amongst the largest animals.

Summer is the season of their pleasures; many of them never live above a single season, while others are found to continue but one day. Such, however, as are more long-lived, take the proper precautions to provide for their safety in winter, and fix upon the most convenient situations for spending that interval, and such as want food lay in the proper stores for subsistence. But the greatest number want no such necessary stock, for they sleep during the continuance of the winter. Some caterpillars, for instance, having fed during the summer, retire, at the approach of cold, to a place of safety, and there, by spinning a thread like a cobweb, hang themselves in some commodious place, covered with a factitious coat, which at once serves to keep them warm, and guard them from external injuries. Here they continue in this torpid state till the returning sun calls them to new life; they now expand new wings, and become butterflies, which seem scarce employed in any other manner than that of reproducing their kinds. Thus we see among insects those different offices of eating, sleeping, and generation, make different seasons in their lives. Were we to compare them with other animals we should find, that while those pursue such pleasures by frequent returns, these experience each but once in their lives, and die.





There are some insects, however, which lay up provisions for the winter, of which the bee and the foreign ant are remarkable instances. The wasp, the hornet, and the wild bee are not less assiduous in laying in a proper stock of food, and fitting up commodious apartments; but this is wholly for the sake of their young, for they forsake their nests in winter, leave their young furnished with every convenience, and retire themselves to other places, where, in all probability, they live without eating.





In general, all insects are equally careful for posterity, and find out proper places wherein to lay their eggs, that, when they are hatched and produce young ones, there may be sufficient food to maintain them; whether they choose trees, plants, or animal substances, still the nascent creature finds a bed which at once supplies food and protection. The plum and the peach seem to give birth to insects peculiarly formed for residing in them. The pear and apple produce a white moth; on the oak leaf are hatched several of beautiful colours, white, green, yellow, brown, and variegated. The manner in which those insects lay their eggs is sufficiently curious; they wound the leaf half through, and then deposit their eggs in the little cavity. As the insect increases, its nidus, or bed, increases also, so that we often see the leaves of trees with round swellings on the surface, upon opening of which we may discover numberless insects not yet come to maturity. On oak trees these nests appear like little buds, and are in fact only gems or buds, which are increased in thickness when they ought to have been pushed out in length. The insect thrusts one or more eggs into the very heart of the gem, which begins to be turgid in June, and but for this would have shot out in July. This egg soon becomes a maggot, that eats itself a small cell in the midst of the bud, the vegetation of which being thus obstructed, the sap designed to nourish it is diverted to the remaining parts of the bud, which are only scaly integuments that by this means grow large, and become a covering to the case in which the insect lies. But not only the oak, but the willow, and some other trees and plants, have knobs thus formed, which generally grow in or near the rib of the leaf. Among these cases formed by insects, the Aleppo galls may be reckoned as the most useful, the insects of which, when come to maturity, gnaw their way out, as may be seen by the little holes in every nut. But all these are formed by the ichneumon kinds of flies, namely, of those kinds which are vulgarly call the blue-bottle fly.





Those kinds, however, which do not wound the leaf, take great pains to lay their eggs on the surface, in the exactest and most curious manner. When thus deposited, they are always fastened thereto with a glue, and constantly at the same end. Those which lay them in the water, place them in beautiful rows, and generally in a sizy substance, to prevent their being carried away with the motion of the water. Upon posts, and on the sides of windows in country villages, little round eggs have been seen resembling pearls, which produced small hairy caterpillars, and those like the rest are all laid in very regular order. The gnat, though so very small, is yet very curious in the manner of depositing her eggs, or spawn. It lays them on the water, but fixes them to some floating substance by means of a stalk, which prevents them from sinking. The eggs are contained in a sort of transparent jelly, and very neatly laid; when hatched by the warmth of the season, they sink to the bottom, where they become small maggots, stick to the stones, and provide themselves cases, or cells, which they creep into or go out of at pleasure, and thus continue till they take the usual change into that of a fly. Most of these insects are tinged with one principal colour, resembling either that of the leaves on which they subsist, or the branches to which they fasten; on these they march with great slowness, and by this artifice are confounded with what they subsist upon, so as to escape the birds, their rapacious and watchful enemies. Such is the manner with those insects which being hatched from eggs, are then transformed into caterpillars, which may be called their eating state; after that, wrapped round with a covering of their own fabrication, and thus turning into nymphae, which may be called their sleeping state; and lastly, furnished with wings, and metamorphosed into butterflies, which is their generating state.





But there are numberless other insects which are brought forth alive, such as the spider, and the snail produced with a shell, which grows with its growth, and is never found to forsake it. These are never seen to change, but continue their growth: the spider, as it becomes older, has its legs longer,

TOL. IX— II





and if they be cut off, like those of the lobster they grow out afresh. The snail, as it becomes more old, acquires additional ringlets to its shell, and contains in itself both sexes. But there is an animal lately discovered, whose powers of generation are still more extraordinary than anything hitherto taken notice of, and from the phenomena attending which, M. Buffon has ventured to affirm, that he still believes there may be such a thing as equivocal generation. The animal in question is called the polypus, a small reptile found on aquatic plants, and in muddy ditches. This surprising creature, though cut into ever so many parts, still continues to live in every division, and each, in less than three days, becomes in every respect a perfect polypus, like that which was at first divided. This I think may be justly esteemed the lowest of animated beings, and scarce to be ranked above the sensitive plants, except by being endowed with a locomotive faculty, or a power of moving from one leaf to another. It is thus that nature chooses to mix the kinds of being by imperceptible gradation, so that it becomes hard to determine where animals end, or vegetables begin. In this there are evident marks of her wisdom in filling up every chasm in the great scale of being, so that no possible existence may be wanting in her universal plan. Were we to ask, why these minute creatures, in general little regarded by man, except from the prejudice they are of to his labours, were formed in such great abundance, it would be no easy task to find a reply. For man's use they were not made, as they are allowed to be noxious to him; nor for the sustenance of other animals that may be of use to him, since the advantages of the latter cannot compensate for damage done by the former; perhaps the wisest answer would be, that every creature was formed for itself, and each allowed to seize as great a quantity of happiness from the universal stock, as was consistent with the universal plan; thus each was formed to make the happiness of each; the weak of the strong, and the strong of the weak, but still in proportion to every order, power of conquest, and enjoyment. Thus we shall find, that though man may be reciprocally useful to other animals, yet in some measure they were formed for his use, because he has been endowed with every power of rendering them subservient, and enjoying their submission.





Part V.—Of Botany In General

If we consider the different methods in which the knowledge of Botany has been treated of late, we shall find that none of the sciences so much require abridgment. The science of vegetables may properly enough be divided into three parts; namely, that of their arrangement in the botanical nomenclature, their culture, and their properties. The last is the only one of real importance; the two former being subservient to it, and of no other benefit but as tending to make the latter more serviceable or more readily comprehended.





When the knowledge of vegetables is once reduced into a science, it is requisite that their names and distribution should be the first thing delivered; but those who first attempted to learn the science from nature herself, knew the plant and its properties before they assigned it a name. We have been nourished with the fruits, we have been clad with the leaves or barks, and have built huts of the wood of trees, before we became solicitous as to their appellations; chance rather than sagacity first taught us the use of plants, and their names followed their known utility. Hence it is obvious, that those immense labours which some late botanists have undergone to give us a list of the names of plants, can tend but little towards the discovery of their properties.

One would be led to suppose from the repeated endeavours to systematise this science, that the naming of plants was all they thought students had to learn. There have been more attempts made, and time consumed in making catalogues of this nature, than if properly directed, would have discovered several new properties in the vegetable world, as yet unknown. There have been numberless efforts made to impress distinct ideas of each plant, without giving the whole description; but every botanical system has hitherto failed in this particular, and nothing but a perfect description of each can give an adequate idea. For





this reason, leaving such systems to the speculative, I have in the following work pursued the common method, and given a perfect account of every vegetable; its roots, leaves, stalks, height, flower, and seeds. Such complete descriptions are absolutely necessary to distinguish one object from another throughout every department of Natural History, but particularly in this, where the objects are so numerous. The deviations of nature are not to be reduced into systems: there are in plants no parts which are manifested in all the species; the flowers and the seeds which seem the most essential, and of consequence the most invariable, are not to be found similar in many of the same sorts, although our most boasted systems are wholly founded upon the similitude in the parts of fructification.

I hope, therefore, students will excuse me for not having adopted either the systems of Tournefort or Linnaeus, in contradiction to nature and experience; my design being not to amuse the speculative, but to direct the industrious. Their attempts to reduce the names of plants into a system, have rendered the study more difficult and more subject to error, than it would have been if the student had only used his sight for the distinguishing of plants, and his memory for registering them. The number also of vegetables which they have undertaken to register, is equally prejudicial to this useful study; not less than twenty thousand species have been classed, a multitude, the mere remembering of which would employ all that time which might be usefully spent in the investigation of their particular uses. Instead therefore of expatiating upon so large, yet barren, a field, I have only taken care to describe all such exotics as are useful to us, either in medicine, or manufactures, and all indigenous plants that have been at any time in use, which though now obsolete may deserve one day an attention of which at present they are thought undeserving.1





Leaving therefore systematical arrangement, let us treat this subject in the manner of the ancients, as Pliny and Aristotle (if the work upon this subject ascribed to him be genuine) have handled it. Such as have been found already useful to mankind, we shall take particular care minutely to describe, and leave to posterity and chance to find out the uses of those now unnoticed.

In every vegetable production we may consider either the seed, the root, the leaf, the bark, the stalk, the pith, and the flower; all of which are necessary in carrying on the business of vegetation, and transmitting the species from season to season without interruption. But though the principles of vegetation reside in every part of the plant, yet we generally find greater proportions of oil in the more elaborate and exalted parts of vegetables, namely, the seed. This containing the rudiments of the future vegetable, it was necessary that it should be well stored with principles that would preserve the seed from putrefaction, and tend to promote vegetation. When the seed is sown, in a few days it imbibes so much moisture as to swell, so that it produces the radicle or incipient root, with some force, which, when shot into the ground, imbibes nourishment from thence, and what it receives becomes, in a short time, the chief supply of future growth. When the root is thus far grown, it supplies the plume with nourishment, till this, by expanding and growing thinner, turns to green leaves, which are of such importance to the incipient plant, that it perishes, and will not thrive if they are pulled off. But when the plume is so far come to maturity, as to have branches and expanded leaves to draw up nourishment, these seminal leaves being no longer useful, perish; their perspiration being impeded by the newly produced leaves that overshadow them, and their sap being drawn away by the larger channels of the upper foliage.



1 Such as would desire to be more fully convinced of the fertility of the botanical system, may consult a memoir written by M. Daubenton, the present keeper of the royal cabinet at Paris.— Au Mot. Botanique Encyclop. fol. vol. ii. p. 340.—Goldsmith.





As the plant advances in stature, the first, second, third, and fourth order of lateral branches shoot out, each lower order being larger than those immediately above them, not only on account of their having a longer time to grow, but because being inserted in large parts of the trunk, and nearer the root which is the grand supply, they are provided with greater plenty of sap, from whence we generally see trees tapering beautifully to the top.





Upon the discovery of the circulation of the blood in animals, botanists seemed willing to think, from the analogy there was between all the works of nature, that the same circulation must also have prevailed in vegetables; and some have actually undertaken to prove, that the sap first rises to the tops of trees by the pith, and then again descends to the root by the bark, with the swiftest motion. This was long a received opinion, till the learned Dr. Hales undertook by experiment to undeceive the public, and has led many to be of his opinion: When, says he, the sap has first passed through that thick and fine strainer, the bark of the root (which may be regarded as the stomach of vegetables in general, where the greatest part of the nourishment is prepared and taken in) there it is found in great quantities in the most lax part between the bark and the wood; early in the spring it begins to rise. But as this sap is imbibed from the earth in great quantities, its celerity, continues he, would be incredible if that quantity first ascended to the top of the tree, and then descended again before it were carried off by perspiration. The defect of circulation, however, in vegetables, he accounts for by the superior quantity of liquor carried off by perspiration than what is perspired by animals, having shown that a sunflower, bulk for bulk, imbibes and perspires seventeen times more fresh liquor than a man, every twenty-four hours. So that though the sap ascends with great velocity in vegetables, from this great quantity of subtile fluid carried off by the leaves, yet there seems no reason for its descent in any such proportion, nor would it have sufficient time to supply the plant with nutrition, if it went round so briskly. Such was the opinion of this great naturalist. Mr. Duhamel, however, who has written since his time, has undertaken to prove the descent of the sap in vegetables, as well as its ascent, by making a circular incision on the barks of trees, and finding the swelling of the bark above the incision was greater than that below it, which equally answered if the plant and its pot were inverted, the roots being in air, the branches downward. However, this may be certain, that there is a constant flow of juices through every plant, the roots furnishing it in great quantities, while the leaves spreading an extended surface to the sun, have their moisture attracted in very large quantities, and when the influence of his beams no longer continue, they at night act as sponges, and imbibe the humidity of the air. Thus we see that the leaves are absolutely necessary in the work of vegetation; they, like young animals, are furnished with instruments to suck it from thence; and beside this, they separate and carry off the redundant watery fluid, which, by being long detained, would turn rancid, and become noxious to the plant.





But as the leaves are found to exhale moisture, so they are known to imbibe nourishment from the air. The acid and sulphureous spirit with which the air is fraught, is thence extracted by the leaves of plants, so that it is probable the most exalted and aromatic principles of vegetables are derived from this source, rather than from the grosser watery fluid of the sap. Leaves are found to perform in some measure the same office, for the support of vegetative life, that the lungs of animals do for the support of animal life; but as plants have not a power of contracting or dilating the chest, their inspirations will depend wholly on the alternate changes of the air. Plants of the more rich and racy juices imbibe greater quantities of nutriment from the air, than the more vapid and succulent plants, which are found to abound more in sap. The vine, for instance, is known by experiment to draw but little watery nutriment from the earth by its roots, and therefore it imbibes greater quantities of dew, impregnated with air by night, from whence it derives its richness of flavour; and this may be the reason why plants in hot countries abound more with fine aromatic principles than northern vegetables; the former chiefly extracting their juices from the air by the leaf, the latter theirs from the earth by the root.

Nothing can exceed the regularity with which leaves are placed on every plant, and Bonetius has been at the pains of describing the different dispositions they assume; the alternate, the crossing, the vertical, the quincunx, and the spiral, are the divisions he makes of their arrangements. But the care which, when budding, nature seems to take of the young shoots, still deserves greater admiration, for the most tender parts are ever defended by those which have acquired a greater degree of strength. Besides this, the leaf, as may be easily seen, has two different surfaces, the upper which seems more smooth and polished, the lower in which the ribs are more prominent, and the colour of a paler green; the cause of this difference has not a little puzzled the botanists of every age; perhaps the upper polished surface, from its position being more liable to the external injuries of the air and rains, is thus formed rather to defend the lower part, in which probably the attractive powers may reside.





In this manner the leaves of trees contribute to improve the flavour of the fruits, and regulate the vegetation. When trees stand thick together in woods or groves the lower branches, being shaded by those of neighbouring trees, can perspire little, and imbibe less, wherefore they perish; but the top branches being exposed to a free air, they perspire plentifully, and by this means drawing the sap to the top, they advance in height rather than extent: so that Dr. Hales compares a tree to a complicated engine, which hath as many different powers of attraction as it hath arms or branches, each drawing from their common fountain of life, the root. The younger the plant, the greater its power of attraction, while as it grows older the vessels of circulation become more rigid, and the parts to be produced more inflexible, till at last the parts, no longer capable from the rigidity of age, either of protrusion or dilatation, the plant acquires its greatest degree of hardness, but continues to vegetate no longer. So that in all we see the admirable contrivance of the Author of nature, in adapting different ways of conveying nourishment to the different circumstances of her productions. In the embryo state the quantity which the bud demands relative to its size is very great; when it is increased, though a much greater quantity of nourishment is then necessary, yet less suffices each particular part, so that nature produces no organised being, which it is not able to supply.





But the assiduity of nature in the protection of the growing plant is not greater than her care to preserve the seeds which are to propagate the future vegetable uninjured. The curious expansion of blossoms and flowers seems to be appointed by nature, not only to protect, but also to convey nourishment to the embryo seed. M. Vaillant even seems to regard flowers as the criterion which constitute the difference of sex in plants; he pretends that the leaves of flowers are nothing more than coverings, which serve to wrap up the organs of generation, with which all plants are furnished, they having not less than animals their different sexes.





Tournefort, whose name we have adopted, distinguishes five parts in flowers, namely, the petal, the stamen, the apex, the pistil, and calix, or cup; these parts, however, are not found united in all flowers, but some have one part, some another. To give the ignorant an idea of these, let us take the carnation, a common flower, for an example, as containing them all. The leaves or petals of flowers are so called to distinguish them from the leaf of the plant. The petals are therefore the beautiful striped leaves that compose the flower of the carnation; the stamen is that small slender stalk, several of which are found growing in the midst of the petals; the apex is the little head with which every stamen is terminated; the pistil is that single eminence, in the midst of all, terminated by two or three crooked filaments; while the calix or cup is that exterior green part of the flower which encloses and supports the rest. Such flowers as have stamina with apexes at the end, in general have two little receptacles, containing a dust or farina, but produce no fruit, they are called male plants; such, on the contrary, as have only a pistil, which is succeeded by the fruit, are called female; those, on the other hand, which have both stamina and pistils, are called hermaphrodite plants, as uniting both .sexes in one. In order to perform the business of fecundity, it has been supposed that the dust or farina, contained in the apex of the male flower, was scattered by the wind, or otherwise, upon the pistil of the female flowers, which was adapted with a proper apparatus for receiving it, and became by this means prolific. It has been also found by experience, that when the male and female flowers were separated by a high wall or otherwise, the latter continued barren and produced no seed; however, this whole theoiy has of late been strongly opposed by many eminent botanists, particularly the late Dr. Alston of Edinburgh, a man of extensive knowledge in such subjects, and of indefatigable industry.





The fruits in general serve to supply the seed with moisture, and may be compared to a chemical elaboratory, in which the oleaginous juices are prepared; those kernels in particular which are enclosed within a thick shell, and receive nourishment from the fruit expanded round it, have the vessels which supply this nut, running perpendicularly inward, but making convolutions round the edges of the shell, in order to prepare the oils in still greater perfection.

In all fruits Linnaeus distinguishes the pericardium, or inner covering, in which the seed is lodged, the semen, or seed, and the receptaculum, or husk, as we call it, which is the part which supports the seed of the flower, or both together.

The pericardium he divides into eight kinds, to wit, i. The capsula, or pod, which is composed of several elastic cells, which generally open of themselves when ripe, and which inclose the seed in one or more cells; 2. The conceptaculum, which differs from the capsula, in that it is void of elasticity; 3. The siliqua; 4. The legumen; 5. The drupa; 6. The pomum; 7. The bacca. 8. The strobilus, or cone. Such are the divisions this naturalist has thought proper to make in fruits; but if we examine nature, we shall find that these are perfectly arbitrary, and that to understand these minute distinctions, is more difficult than to become acquainted with her real productions.





But though fruits in general are the most inconsiderable agents in promoting the work of vegetation, being, as has been already observed, only destined for supplying the seed with proper moisture and nourishment; yet, with respect to man, they make the most useful and pleasing part of vegetable productions. Their general properties, as constituting a part of our food, may be considered as arising from their different degrees of maturity. In general, while unripe, they may be considered as astringent, and in some measure partaking of the qualities of the bark of their respective trees; when come to a sufficient degree of maturity, they cool and attenuate, but from too great a power, in these respects, they often bring on disorders that are fatal, particularly in warmer climates, where their juices are possessed of those qualities still more than with us. In our climates, however, this seldom happens, and they probably do not make a sufficient part of our diet.





As many expedients have been tried among us for preserving fruit fresh all the year, I shall beg leave to give one communicated to the public by the Chevalier Southwell, and which has been used in France with success. Take of saltpetre one pound, of bole armenic two pounds, of common sand well freed from its earthy parts, four pounds, and mix all together; after this, let the fruit be gathered with the hand before it be thorough ripe, each fruit being handled only by the stalk; lay them regularly, and in order, in a large widemouthed glass vessel; then cover the top of the glass with an oiled paper, and carrying it into a dry place, set in a box filled all round to about four inches thickness with the aforesaid preparations, so that no part of the glass vessel shall appear, being buried in a manner in the prepared nitre; and, at the end of the year such fruits may be taken out as beautiful as when they were first put in.





INTRODUCTION »

EXPERIENCE every day convinces us, that no part of learning affords so much wisdom upon such easy terms as history. Our advances in most other studies are slow and disgusting, acquired with effort, and retained with difficulty; but in a well-written history every step we proceed only serves to increase our ardour: we profit by the experience of others without sharing their toils or misfortunes; and in this part of knowledge in a more particular manner study is but relaxation.

Of all histories, however, that which, not confined to any particular reign or country, but which extends to the transactions of all mankind, is the most useful and entertaining. As in geography we can have no just idea of the situation of one country without knowing that of others; so in history, it is in some measure necessary to be acquainted with the whole thoroughly to comprehend a part. There is a constant, though sometimes concealed, concatenation in events, by which they produce each other, and without a knowledge of which they cannot be comprehended separately. The rise of one kingdom is often found owing to political defects in some other. The arts and learning of succeeding states take a tincture from those countries from whence they were originally derived. Some nations have been applauded for plans of government, which an acquaintance with general history would have shown were not their own; while others have been reproached for barbarities which were not natural to them, but the result of erroneous imitation.



i To "A General History of the World, from the Creation to the Present Time. By William Guthrie, Esq., John Gray, Esq., and others eminent in this branch of literature." ia vols. 8vo, 1764. Vol. ix—ia *77





Thus no one part of the general picture can be thoroughly conceived alone; but by taking in the whole of history at one view, we can trace every cause to its remotest source, observe how far every nation was indebted to its own efforts for its rise or decline, how far to accident or the particular circumstances of the countries around it. We may here trace the gradations of its improvement or decay, mark in what degree conquerors introduced refinement among those they subdued, or how far they conformed to the soil and put on barbarity. By such reflections as these, and by applying the transactions of past times to our own, we may become more capable of regulating our private conduct, or directing that of others in society.

A knowledge of universal history is therefore highly useful; nor is it less entertaining. Tacitus complains, that the transactions of a few reigns could not afford him a sufficient stock of materials to please or interest the reader; but here that objection is entirely removed. A History of the World presents the most striking events, with the greatest variety. In fact, what can be more entertaining than thus reviewing this vast theatre where we ourselves are performers, to converse with those who have been great or famous, to condemn the vices of tyrants without fearing their resentment, or praise the virtues of the good without conscious adulation, to constitute ourselves judges of the merit of even kings, and thus to anticipate what posterity will say of such as now hear only the voice of flattery? These are a part of the many advantages which universal history has over all others, and which have encouraged so many writers to attempt compiling works of this kind, among the ancients as well as the moderns. Each of them seems to have been invited by the manifest utility of the design; yet it must be owned, that many of them have failed through the great and unforeseen difficulties of the undertaking.





Nor will the reader be surprised, if he considers how many obstructions an historian who embarks in a work of this nature has to interrupt his progress. The barrenness of events in the early periods of history, and their fertility in modern times, equally serve to increase his embarrassments. In recounting the transactions of remote antiquity,. there is such a defect of materials, that the willingness of mankind to supply the chasm has given birth to falsehood, and invited conjecture. The farther we look back into those distant periods, all the objects seem to become more obscure, or are totally lost by a sort of perspective diminution. In this case, therefore, when the eye of truth could no longer discern clearly, fancy undertook to form the picture, and fables were invented where truths were wanting. So that were an historian to relate all that has been conjectured concerning the transactions before the flood, it would be found to compose by no means the smallest part of universal history; a composition equally voluminous, obscure, and disgusting.





In the work, therefore, which is here presented to the public, we have been very concise in relating these fictions and conjectures, which have been the result of idleness, fraud, or superstition. Nor yet would the task have been difficult to amaze the ignorant, as some have done before us, with obscure erudition and scholastic conjecture. The regions of conjectural erudition are wide and extensive; in them there is room for every new adventurer, and immense loads of neglected learning still remain to be carried from thence into our own language. There, as in those desolate and remote countries that are colonised by sickening states, every stranger who thinks proper may enter and cultivate; there is much room; but after much labour he will most probably find it an ungrateful soil.





Were we disposed to enter upon such a province, we might easily, for instance, with some rabbins, inquire whether Adam were a hundred cubits high, or of the ordinary stature; we might, with Hornius, examine, whether he were a philosopher or a savage; or with Antoinette Bourignon, whether a man or an hermaphrodite. In delivering the history of the deluge, after having compiled the systems of our own country men, we might have improved upon our predecessors with those of Steno, Scheuchzer, and La Pluche; having mentioned the antiquities of Egypt, we might have made a digression on the Isiac table, ran round the circle of quotation, collected the opinions of Rudbeck, Fabricius, Herwart, Kircher, Witsius, and Pignorius, concerning this singular piece of antiquity; prove that they could make nothing of it; pathetically complain that the learned authors of a late Universal History had taken none of these subjects under consideration, and at last leave the reader in pristine ignorance.

But surely men of real knowledge cannot, without a degree of sarcastic contempt, behold such pretences to erudition, such a quackery of learning, acquired by the easy art of quoting from quotations, by consulting books, but not from reading them. Pretenders in every science are ostentatious; but real learning, like real charity, chooses to do good unseen.

We have therefore declined enlarging on such disquisitions, not for want of materials, which offered themselves at every step of our progress, but because we thought them not worth discussing. Neither have we, for this reason, encumbered the beginning of our work with the various opinions of the heathen philosophers concerning the creation, which may be found in most of our systems of theology, and belong more properly to the divine than the historian. In fact, we are not fond of building up an edifice merely for the sake of pulling it down, or of arranging the opinions of men only to show their uncertainty; for in the present instance, to use the words of Lactantius,"horum omnium sententia quamvis sit incerta, eodem tamen spectat, ut providentiam unam esse consentiant, sive enim natura, sive aether, sive ratio, sive mens, sive fatalis necessitas, sive divina lex, idem est quod a nobis dicitur Deus;" so that most philosophers agree in the main—they allow one intelligent Creator, and are found to differ less in sense than expression.





Throughout this work, therefore, not to make any vain or unnecessary displays of erudition, we acknowledge that the materials to which we have had recourse, are the same with those which other historians for several ages have employed before us, and which have been well known to the learned since the revival of letters. It would be unjust to make pretences to new discoveries of this kind; since neither we nor our predecessors in universal history, whatever the ignorant may suppose, have discovered any hidden stores already unexplored for compiling ancient history. Neither they nor we have found way to the libraries of Fez or Amara; all the merit of the compiler of ancient history in the present age, lies not in his discoveries of new assistance, but in his use and arrangement of that already known.





To deal candidly with the reader, there is little known of early antiquity but what is contained in the Scriptures, those sacred books to which the ignorant may, or ought to have, recourse as well as we. As for what remains of Sanconiathon, Manetho, Berosus, and such like, how well soever the names may sound in the ear of ignorance, or come from the lips of vanity, the learned have, for several ages, forsaken them as sources from whence little or no information can be derived.

The little we have of them remaining is not less useless by mutilation than absurdity. Sanconiathon is without authority; and as for Manetho, what we have of his, according to Eusebius's account of him, is but a translation into the usual Greek character of monuments written in sacred characters, and preserved by the Egyptian Hierophantes; which monuments were themselves translated from a sacred language, which was extracted from a different sacred character, which was engraven on columns before the flood. The truth is, that long before the time of Manetho, the old Egyptian sacred character was unknown; for it is probable that it continually suffered innovation. As early as the times of Herodotus, those which were engraven on some of the pyramids were utterly unintelligible to the priests themselves; but long after, upon the invasion of Egypt by Alexander, the Grecians, who had at first received their learning from the Egyptians, returned the obligation, and brought philosophy back to Egypt very much improved; by which means the refined opinions of the conquerors began by degrees to mix themselves with Egyptian theology.





From this period, therefore, the ancient systems began to be neglected, and their new mixture of superstition and philosophy to be written in new characters; so that at the times Manetho, Asclepiades, Palephates, Cheremon, and Hecateus, published their works, it is most probable that the ancient Egyptian learning was even unintelligible among the Egyptians. What credit, therefore, can be given to such forgeries, the most ordinary reader is left to judge; as for the learned, they have determined the point already.

All other monuments, therefore, of remote antiquity, except those contained in the sacred text, are obscure, mutilated, and trifling; nor is it, perhaps, any great loss to the present world, that such useless materials are thus fallen in the wreck of time. Man, while yet unreduced by laws, and struggling with the beasts of the forest for divided dominion, while yet savage and solitary, was scarcely an object whose actions were worth transmitting to posterity. The value of history arises from the necessary diversity of laws, arts, and customs among men, which inform the understanding, and produce an agreeable variety; but savage life is the same in every climate and every age, presenting the observer only with one uniform picture— a life of suspicion, indolence, improvidence, and rapacity. Besides, the nearer history comes home to the present times, the more it is our interest to be acquainted with it, the accounts of ancient ages being only useful as introductory to our own; wherefore it happens well that those parts of which we know the least, are the least necessary to be known.





Sensible, therefore, how liable we are to redundancy in the first part of our design, it has been our endeavour to unfold ancient history with all possible conciseness; and solicitous to improve the reader's stock of knowledge, we have been indifferent as to the display of our own. We have not stopped to discuss or confute all the absurd conjectures men of speculation have thrown in our way. We at first had even determined not to embarrass the page of truth with the names of those whose labours had only been calculated to encumber it with falsehood and vain speculation. However, we have thought proper, upon second thoughts, slightly to mention them and their opinions, quoting the author at the bottom of the page, so that the reader who is curious about such particularities, may know where to have recourse for fuller information.

But critical philology of this kind is pretty much and justly exploded in the present age: at the revival of letters, indeed, when all the stores of antiquity were as yet unexplored, the learned, as might naturally be expected, made greater use of their memory than their judgment, and exhausted their industry in examining opinions not yet well known. But all that could conduce to enlighten history has been since often examined, and placed in every point of view; it now only remains to show a skill rather in selecting than collecting, to discover a true veneration for the works of the ancients, not by compiling their sentiments, but by imitating their elegant simplicity.





As in the early part of history a want of real facts hath induced many to spin out the little that was known with conjecture, so in the modem department the superfluity of trifling anecdotes was equally apt to introduce confusion. In one case history has been rendered tedious from our want of knowing the truth; in the other, of knowing too much of truths not worth our notice. Every year that is added to the age of the world, serves to lengthen the page of its history; so that to give this branch of learning a just length in the circle of human pursuits, it is necessary to abridge several of the least important facts.

It is true we often, at present, see the annals of a single reign, or even the transactions of a single year, occupying folios: but can the writers of such tedious journals ever hope to reach posterity? or do they think that our descendants, whose attention will naturally be turned to their own concerns, can exhaust so much time in the examination of ours? Though a late elegant writer has said much in favour of abridgments, we neither approve nor contend for them; but even such mutilated accounts are better than to have that short duration allotted us here below entirely taken up with minute details and uninteresting events. There are many other useful branches of knowledge as well as history to share our industry; but from the extent of some late works of this kind, one would be led to suppose that this study alone were recommended to fill up all the vacuities of life, and that to contemplate what others had done was all we had to do.





A plan of general history rendered too extensive, deters us from a study that is perhaps of all others the most useful, by rendering it too laborious; and instead of alluring our curiosity, excites our despair. A late work has appeared to us highly obnoxious in this respect. There have been already published of that performance not less than fifty-four volumes, and it still remains unfinished, and perhaps may continue to go on finishing while it continues to find purchasers, or till time itself can no longer furnish new materials. Alread y, as Livy hath expressed it upon a different occasion: "Eo creavit ut magnitudine laboret sua;" it is grown to such a size, as actually to seem sinking under the weight of its own corpulence.

In fact, where is the reader possessed of sufficient fortitude to undertake the painful task of travelling through such an immense track of compilation; particularly if through the greatest part of this journey he should find no landscapes to amuse, nor pleasing regions to invite, but a continued uniformity of dreary prospects, shapeless ruins, and fragments of mutilated antiquity? Writers are unpardonable who convert our amusement into labour, and divest knowledge of one of its most pleasing allurements. The ancients have represented history under the figure of a woman, easy, graceful, and inviting; but we have seen her in our days converted, like the virgin of Nabis, into an instrument of torture. But, in truth, such as read for profit and not for ostentation, seldom have anything to do with such voluminous productions, which are utterly unsuited to human talents and time: they are at first usually caught up by vanity, and admired by ignorance; from their weight they naturally descend into the lower shelves of a large library, and ever after keep their stations there in unmolested obscurity. How far we have retrenched these excesses, and steered between the opposites of exuberance and abridgment, the judicious are left to determine. We here offer the public a history of mankind from the earliest account of time to the present age, in twelve volumes, which, upon mature deliberation, appeared to us the proper mean. For as some have lengthened similar undertakings to ten times that size, so others have comprised the whole in one tenth of our compass. Thus, for instance, Turselinus, Puffendorf, Bossuet, and Holberg, have each reduced universal history into a single volume; but as the former are found fatiguing from their prolixity, so the latter are unsatisfactory from the necessary brevity to which they are confined.





It has been, therefore, our endeavour to give every fact its full scope, but at the same time to retrench all disgusting superfluity; to give every object the due proportion it ought to maintain in the general picture of mankind, without crowding the canvas: such a history should, in one respect, resemble a well formed dictionary of arts and sciences; both should serve as a complete library of science or history to every man, except in his own profession, in which more particular tracts or explanations may be wanted. We flatter ourselves, therefore, that this will be found both concise and perspicuous, though it must be candidly confessed, that we sate down less desirous of making a succinct history than a pleasing one; we sought after elegance alone, but accidentally found conciseness in our pursuit.

But to attain a just elegance order was requisite; it was necessary in so complex a subject to be very careful both of the method and the connection. This is a point in which all writers of general history have usually vied with their predecessors, every last attempt discovering the defects in the former; and indeed, to do justice, every last attempt seems to have been the best in this respect. Method, in very complex subjects, is one of those attainments which is gained only by the successive application of different talents to the same pursuit; it is mended by repeated effort, and refines as it flows; so that from the times of the first writer of this kind among the moderns that we remember, down to that of the late Universal History, published in fifty-four volumes, the distribution of the parts has gone on improving.





It would therefore be the height of injustice not to acknowledge our obligations to those writers last mentioned, for their assistance in this particular. We have, however, laid hold of every opportunity that offered of improvement, particularly by proscribing such foreign matter as tended to lead the reader away from the principal subject. Uniformity in a work of this kind should be principally attended to: in a subject like this, consisting of heterogeneous parts that are at best feebly held together, we should never render the connection still more feeble by the insinuation of new materials; or, to express it in a different manner, where there is already danger of embarrassment from multitude, the introduction of foreign members would but necessarily increase the tumult. We hope, therefore, that the reader will here see the revolutions of empires without confusion, and trace arts and laws from one kingdom to another, without losing his interest in the narrative of their other transactions.





To attain these ends with greater certainty of success, we have taken care in some measure to banish that late, and we may add, Gothic practice of using a multiplicity of notes; a thing as much unknown to the ancient historians, as it is disgusting in the moderns. Balzac somewhere calls vain erudition the baggage of antiquity: might we in turn be permitted to make an apothegm, we should call notes the baggage of a bad writer. Scarcely any other reason has been assigned for this bad practice, but that if such were inserted into the body of the work, they might impede the rapidity of the narration. It is not easy, however, to conceive in what manner a reader is less interrupted, whose eye is invited down to the note at the bottom of the page, which was certainly placed there in order to be read, than he would be by a proper insertion of the same into the body of the work. Will they persuade us, that an animal will move with less care and swiftness who carries its load upon its back, than if he dragged it along at the tail? It certainly argues a defect of method, or a want of perspicuity, when an author is thus obliged to write notes upon his own works; and it may as suredly be said, that whoever undertakes to write a comment upon himself, will for ever remain with out a rival his own commentator. We have therefore left off such excrescences, though not to any degree of affectation; as sometimes an acknowledged blemish may be admitted into works of skill, either to cover a greater defect, or to take a nearer course to beauty.





Having mentioned the danger of affectation, it may be proper to observe, that as this, of all defects, is most apt to insinuate itself into such a work, we have therefore been upon our guard against it. From the natural bias which every historian has to some favourite profession or science, he is apt to introduce phrases or topics drawn from thence upon every occasion, and thus not unfrequently tinctures a work otherwise valuable with absurdity. Menage tells us of a chemist, who, writing a history, used upon every occasion the language of an adept, and brought all his allusions from the laboratory. Polybius, who was a soldier, has been reprehended for taking up too much time in the history of a siege or the description of a battle. Guicciardini, on the other hand, who was a secretary, has been tedious in disserting upon trifling treaties and dull negotiations. In like manner, we have known writers, who, being somewhat acquainted with Oriental languages, have filled a long history with long Arabic names and uncouth spellings.

Were we disposed to the same affectations, it would have been easy enough, through the course of our work, to have written Mohammed for Mahomet, Tatar for Tartar, Wazir for Visier, or Timour for Tamerlane; we might even have outgone our predecessors, and have written Stamboul for Constantinople, or Ganga for Ganges, with true exotic propriety. But though we have the proper reverence for Arabic, and Malayan also, of which we profess our ignorance, we have thought it expedient to reject such peculiarities. For which reason, when we meet the name of an Arabian general at full length, we make no scruple of abridging his titles, or turning them into English. Thus, for instance, when an Arabian historian and his faithful copyists, in a late Universal History, assure us that Hareth Ebn Talatula led an army into the field, which by the temerity of Al Howaireth Ebn Nohaid Ebn Wahab Ebn Abd Ebn Kosa, was utterly defeated, we thought less ceremony might be used with such an indifferent general, and simply mention Howaireth's folly and his defeat. To be serious: innovation, in a work of this nature, should by no means be attempted; those names and spellings which have been used in our language from time immemorial, ought to continue unaltered; for, like states, they acquire a sort of jus diuturne possession's, as the civilians express it, however unjust their original claims might have been. Yet, how far we have reformed these defects of style, without substituting errors of our own, we leave the public to determine; for few writers are judges of themselves in these particulars.





With respect to chronology and geography, the one of which fixes actions to time, while the other assigns them to place, we have followed the most approved methods among the moderns. All that

TOL. IX 13





was requisite in this was to preserve one system of each invariably, and permit such as chose to adopt the plans of others to rectify our deviations to their own standard. If actions and things are made to preserve their due distances of time and place mutually with respect to each other, it matters little as to the duration of them all with respect to eternity, or their situation with regard to the universe.

Thus much—perhaps some will think too much —we have thought proper to premise concerning a work which, however executed, has cost much labour and great expense. Had we for our judges the unbiassed and judicious alone, few words would have served, or even silence would have been our best address; but when is it considered that we have wrought for the public, that miscellaneous being, at variance within itself from the differing influence of pride, prejudice, or incapacity, a public already sated with attempts of this nature, and in a manner unwilling to find out merit till forced upon its notice, we hope to be pardoned for thus endeavouring to show where it is presumed we have had a superiority.

A History of the World to the present time, at once satisfactory and succinct, calculated rather for use than curiosity, to be read rather than consulted, seeking applause from the reader's feelings, not from his ignorance of learning or affectation of being thought learned; a history that may be purchased at an easy expense, yet that omits nothing material, delivered in a style correct yet familiar, was wanting in our language; and, though sensible of our own insufficiency, this defect we have attempted to supply. Whatever reception the present age or posterity may give this work, we rest satisfied with our own endeavours to deserve a kind one. The completion of our design has for some years taken up all the time which we could spare from other occupations, of less importance indeed to the public, but probably more advantageous to ourselves. We are unwilling, therefore, to dismiss this subject without observing, that the labour of so great a part of life should at least be examined with candour, and not carelessly confounded in that multiplicity of daily publications which, being conceived without effort, are produced without praise, and sink without censure.





Were he who now particularly entreats the reader's candid examination to mention the part he has had in this work himself, he is well convinced, and that without any affected modesty, that such a discovery would only show the superiority of his associates in this undertaking: but it is not from his friendship or his praise, but from their former labours in the learned world, that they are to expect their reward. Whatever be the fate of this History, their reputation is in no danger, but will still continue rising* for they have found by its gradual increase already, that the approbation of folly is loud and transient; that of wisdom still but lasting.





TO THE PUBLISHER1

SIR,—I perceive by the tenor of your publications, that you chiefly aim at the improvement of youth: if the following letters are thought any way conducive to that purpose, you have my permission to print them.

The first fifty-one letters, ending with these words—avenged them of their enemies—were written by a nobleman to his son at the university. The rest are added, as you will easily perceive, by a much inferior hand; for they were drawn up by me. This I should not have attempted, but the design would otherwise have been defective. With regard to my letters, therefore, little else can be said, but that I have endeavoured, as much as was in my power, to imitate the original. As to his lordship's, I think it may be asserted, that they are written with more judgment, spirit, and accuracy, than any which have yet appeared upon this subject. I am conscious, indeed, that they have been, for some time, handed about in manuscript; but it is presumed that this will not make a publication of them less acceptable, even to those who are possessed of a written copy.



'To "An History of England, in a Series of Letters from a Nobleman to his Son. London: Printed for J. Newbery, at the Bible and Sun, St. Paul's Churchyard, 1764." a vols. 12 mo. price 6s., bound.





I have observed in the schools about town, that, when masters set their scholars to read the History of England, they seem at a loss in their choice of an historian. The more voluminous works of this kind are quite unsuited to a juvenile capacity; the shorter abridgments are chiefly a crowded collection of facts, totally dry and unentertaining. These letters may, probably, supply the defect; and I desire that the volumes may be sent, at my expense, to each of the schools mentioned in the inclosed paper. I am, Sir, yours, etc.





TO THE PUBLIC«

THE Editor cannot dismiss a new edition of this work, without expressing the pleasure he feels in its reception. It was at first ushered into the world with none of the usual methods of awakening curiosity, or biassing the judgment. Its author, as well as its editor, was, and still continues unknown. It appeared with very little splendour; scarce any expense was laid out in the publication, and that praise was studiously avoided, which was only to be caught by pursuing.

However, under all these disadvantages, the work has succeeded beyond the Editor's most sanguine expectations; if he may judge from the numbers which have been sold, and the commendations which have been given. Nor can it be a circumstance of small pleasure to him to think, that a performance, calculated chiefly to dispel the prejudice of party and soften the malevolence of faction, has had purchasers, at a time when almost every new publication that respects our history or constitution, tends to fix the one and inflame the other.



1 To " The History of England, in a Series of Letters from a Nobleman to his Son. London: Printed for Carnan and Newbery, at No. 65, in St. Paul's Churchyard. 1770." 2 vols. iamo.





It is true that but very little of the merit is his own, and that he only applauds himself for triumphs which have been gained by another. However, he is willing to take to himself those advantages which are declined by the great personage who has only deserved them; for the poor often think themselves very fine in those clothes which are thrown aside by their betters.

But, to speak more particularly of my own part of the work, I am not a little proud in hearing that the conclusion is not entirely contemptible, and that it does not fall very far short of the beginning. It was my aim to observe the perspicuity and conciseness of the original, and as his lordship seems to have taken Tacitus for his model, so I took him for mine. It was, in fact, no easy matter, in such a variety of materials as our History affords, to reject trivial particulars, and yet preserve a concatenation of events; to crowd a multitude of facts into so small a compass, and yet not give the work the air of an index. In this all who have hitherto abridged our History have failed; how far the present work has succeeded, posterity must be left to judge.

The first part of these Letters, as we have formerly observed, were written for the instruction of a young man of quality, who was then at college: the Editor, therefore, is surprised with an objection usually made against them, that they are rather above the capacity of boys. If by boys be meant children, I grant it, the facts stripped of all ornament may perhaps be most proper for them; but on the contrary, those who are rising up to manhood should be treated as men, and no works put into their hands but such as are capable of exercising their capacity, and which the most mature judgment would approve. I am well aware, that many schoolmasters will prefer any of those little Histories of England that are written by way of question and answer, and think their boys making great advances, while they are thus loading their memory without exercising their judgment; with these men no arguments will prevail; and I can only dismiss such, with wishing that the professors were as respectable as the profession.





Once more, therefore, I must assert, that though the book is written to men it will be a proper guide for the instruction of boys. Maxima debetur pueris reverentia is true, as well with regard to the books they should read as the examples they should see. In this, I natter myself that they will find nothing here either to corrupt their morals or their style; no slavish tenets that abridge freedom and increase dependence; no enthusiastic rants that drive even virtue beyond the line of duty. Scarcely any opinions are hazarded merely from their elegance or singularity; truth only seems to have guided the pen; and it is remarkable, that many of the tenets in these Letters, that at first publication seemed paradoxical, have been since illustrated by one of the most elegant commentators upon our constitution.1





LETTERS FROM A NOBLEMAN TO HIS SON1

LETTER I

DEAR CHARLES,—The accounts I received from Mr. , your tutor at Oxford, of

your conduct and capacity, give me equal pleasure, both as a father and as a man. I own myself happy in thinking that society will one day reap the advantage of your improved abilities; but I confess myself vain, when I reflect on the care I have taken, and the honour I shall perhaps obtain from assisting their cultivation. Yes, my Charles, self-interest thus mixes with almost every virtue; my paternal vanity is, perhaps, greater than my regard for society in the present instance; but you should consider that the bad pride themselves in their folly, but good minds are vain of their virtues.

I need scarcely repeat what I have so often observed, that your assiduity for a few years, in the early period of life, will give ease and happiness to the succeeding: a life spent in regularity and study, in college, will not only furnish the mind with proper materials, but fit it, by habit, for future felicity. Mathematics will teach you to think with closeness and precision, and the ancient poets will enlarge your imagination: from these two helps, and not from the subtleties of logic, or metaphysical speculations, the mind is at once strengthened and improved. Logic or metaphysics may give the theory of reasoning; but it is poetry and mathematics, though seemingly opposite, that practically improve and fit us for every rational inquiry.



'From the edition in 2 vols, izmo. 1770 (see p. 198) compared with the first edition in 2 vols. umo. 1764 (see p. 196).





These were the studies I recommended as principally conducive to your improvement, and your letters alone are sufficient instances of your complying with my advice. I confess my fears in giving any future instructions on such topics to one who seems better conversant with them than his instructor: I therefore must leave a subject where my superiority at least may be contested.

But after all, my child, these studies are at best but ornaments of the mind, designed rather to polish or to fit it for higher improvements, than as materials to be employed in guiding our conduct as individuals or members of society. There is a field that, in some measure, still lies untrodden before you, and from that alone true wisdom and real improvement can be expected: I mean history. From history, in a great measure, every advantage that improves the gentleman, or confirms the patriot, can be hoped for: it is that which must qualify you for becoming a proper member of the community; for filling that station in which you may hereafter be placed, with honour; and for giving, as well as deriving, new lustre to that illustrious assembly, to which, upon my decease, you have a right to be called.





Yet still, nothing can be more useless than history in the manner in which it is generally studied, where the memory is loaded with little more than dates, names, and events. Simply to repeat the transaction is by some thought sufficient for every purpose: and a youth having been once applauded for his readiness in this way fancies himself a perfect historian. But the true use of history does not consist in being able to settle a genealogy, in quoting the events of an obscure reign, or the true epoch of a contested birth: this knowledge of facts hardly deserves the name of science: true wisdom consists in tracing effects to their causes. To understand history is to understand man, who is the subject. To study history is to weigh the motives, the opinions, the passions of mankind, in order to avoid a similitude of errors in ourselves, or profit by the wisdom of their example.

To study history in this manner may be begun at any age. Children can never be too soon treated as men. Those masters who allege the incapacity of tender years, only tacitly reproach their own: those who are incapable of teaching young minds to reason, pretend that it is impossible. The truth is, they are fonder of making their pupils talk well than think well; and much the greater number are better qualified to give praise to a ready memory than a sound judgment. The generality of mankind consider a multitude of facts as the real food of the mind, not as subjects proper to afford it exercise. From hence it proceeds that history, instead of teaching us to know ourselves, often only serves to raise our vanity, by the applause of the ignorant; or, what is more dangerous, by the self-delusion of untried vanity.





Assuming ignorance is, of all dispositions, the most ridiculous: for in the same proportion as the real man of wisdom is preferable to the unlettered rustic, so much is the rustic superior to him who without learning imagines himself learned. It were better that such a man had never read, for then he might have been conscious of his weakness; but the half-learned man, relying upon his strength, seldom perceives his wants till he finds his deception past a cure.

Your labours in history have hitherto been rather confined to the words, than the facts of your historical guides. You have read Xenophon or Livy, rather with a view of learning the dead languages in which they are written, than of profiting by the instructions which they afford. The time is now come for discontinuing the study of words for things; for exercising your judgment, and giving more room to reason than to fancy.





Above all things, I would advise you to consult the original historians in every relation. Abridgers, compilers, commentators, and critics, are in general only fit to fill the mind with unnecessary anecdotes, or lead its researches astray. In the immensity of various relations, your care must be to select such as deserve to be known, because they serve to instruct; the end of your labour should not be to know in what year fools or savages committed their extravagancies, but by what methods they emerged from barbarity. The same necessity there is for knowing the actions of the worthy part of princes, also compels us to endeavour to forget those of the ignorant and vulgar herd of kings, who seem only to slumber in a seat they were accidentally called to fill. In short, not the history of kings, but of men, should be your principal concern; and such a history is only to be acquired by consulting those originals who painted the times they lived in. Their successors, who pretended to methodise their histories, have almost universally deprived them of all their spirit, and given us rather a dry catalogue of names than an improving detail of events. In reality, history is precious or insignificant, not from the brilliancy of the events, the singularity of the adventures, or the greatness of the personages concerned, but from the skill, penetration, and judgment of the observer. Tacitus frequently complains of his wants of materials, of the littleness of his incidents, of the weakness and villainy of his actors; yet, even from such indifferent subjects, he has wrought out the most pleasing and the most instructive history that ever was written: it will therefore be entirely the work of your own judgment to convert the generality of historians to your benefit; they are, at present, but rude materials, and require a fine discernment to separate the useful from the unnecessary, and analyse their different principles.





Yet, mistake me not: I would not have history to consist of dry speculations upon facts, told with phlegm, and pursued without interest and passion; nor would I have your reason fatigued continually in critical researches: all I require is, that the historian would give as much exercise to the judgment as the imagination. It is as much his duty to act the philosopher, or politician, in his narratives, as to collect materials for narration. Without a philosophical skill in discerning, his very narrative must be frequently false, fabulous, and contradictory; without political sagacity, his characters must be ill drawn, and vice and virtue be distributed without discernment or candour.

What historian can render virtue so amiable as Xenophon? Who can interest the reader so much as Livy? Sallust is an instance of the most delicate exactness, and Tacitus of the most solid reflection: from a perfect acquaintance with these, the youthful student can acquire more knowledge of mankind, a more perfect acquaintance with antiquity, and a more just manner of thinking and expressing, than, perhaps, from any others of any age or country. Other ancient historians may be read to advance the study of ancient learning, but these should be the ground-work of all your researches. Without a previous acquaintance with these, you enter upon other writers improperly prepared; until these have placed you in a proper train of moralising the incidents, other historians may, perhaps, injure, but will not improve you. Let me therefore, at present, my dear Charles, entreat you to bestow the proper care upon those treasures of antiquity; and by your letters, every post, communicate to your father, and your friend, the result of your reflections upon them. I am at a loss whether I shall find more satisfaction in hearing your remarks, or communicating my own? However, in which soever of them I shall be employed, it will make my highest amusement. Amusement is all that I can now expect in life, for ambition has long forsaken me; and, perhaps, my child, after all, what your noble ancestor has observed is most true: When all is done, human life is, at the greatest and the best but like a froward child, that must be played with and humoured a little to keep it quiet till it falls asleep, and then the care is over.1





1 "When all is done, human life is, at the greatest and the best, but like a froward child, that must be played with and humoured a little to keep it quiet till it falls asleep, and then the care is over."— Sir William Temple (of Poetry). The same sentiment has occurred thrice before in these volumes (see Vol. II., p. 35, Vol. V., p. 320, and Vol. VI., p. an. Here then we have it for a fourth time.





I am, my dear boy, your most tender friend and affectionate father,

T* T* *r n* *r ^*



LETTER II

Dear Charles,—I entirely acquiesce in your sentiments, that universal history is a subject too extensive for human comprehension, and that he who would really reap the advantages of history must be contented to bound his views. Satisfied with being superficially acquainted with the transactions of many countries, the learner should place his principal attention only on a few.

Your remarks on the Greek and Roman republics far surpass my expectations; you have justly characterised them as the finest instances of political society that could be founded on the basis of a false religion. Where religion is imperfect, political society, and all laws enacted for its improvement, must be imperfect also. Religion is but philosophy refined; and no man could ever boast an excellence in politics, whose mind had not been previously opened and enlarged by the institutions of theology, an error in religion ever producing defects in legislation.

Forgive me, dear Charles, if I once more congratulate myself upon the pleasure I expect from your future eminence. You are now tinctured with universal history, and are thoroughly conversant with that of Greece and Rome; but there is another department of history still remaining, and that much more important than any I have yet mentioned: I mean the History of England. The history of this country is the proper study of an Englishman; however, it peculiarly concerns those who may, like you, one day have such an important character to support in its administration, and whose own name, perhaps, may find a place in the historic page. All who are enamoured of the liberty and the happiness which they peculiarly enjoy in this happy region, must surely be desirous of knowing the methods by which such advantages were acquired; the progressive steps from barbarity to social refinement, from society to the highest pitch of well constituted freedom. All Europe stands in astonishment at the wisdom of our constitution, and it would argue the highest degree of insensibility in a native of this country, and one, too, who from his birth enjoys peculiar privileges, to be ignorant of what others so much admire.



VOL. IX—'4





I shall not insist upon a principal use to which some apply the English history, I mean that of making it the topic of common conversation; yet, even from such a motive, though in itself trifling, no well-bred man can plead ignorance. Its greatest advantage, however, is, that a knowledge of the past enables the attentive mind to understand the present: our laws and customs, our liberties and abuse of liberty, can scarcely be understood without tracing them to their source, and history is the only channel by which we can arrive at what we so eagerly pursue.





But, were I to compare the history of our own country, in point of amusement, with that of others, I know of none, either ancient or modern, that can vie with it in this respect. In other histories, remote and extensive connections interrupt the reader's interest, and destroy the simplicity of the plan. The history of Greece may be easily divided into seven histories, and into so many it has actually been divided; the history of Rome, from the time it begins to be authentic, is little else than an account of the then known world; but, in England, separated by its situation from the continent, the reader may consider the whole narrative, with all its vicissitudes, in one point of view; it unites the philosopher's1 definition of beauty, by being variously uniform.

The simplicity in a history of our own country is therefore excellent; but I can direct to few who have improved the materials it affords with a proper degree of assiduity or skill. The historians who have treated of this subject have in general written for a party; many with an open avowal of their abuse. Some, who have had talents for this undertaking, were unable to afford themselves sufficient leisure to polish their work into the degree of requisite perfection; while others, who have laboured with sufficient assiduity, have been wofully deficient in point of sagacity, or proper skill in the choice of those facts they thought proper to relate. Whatever has been known, and not what was worth knowing, has been faithfully transcribed; so that the present accounts of the country resemble the ancient face of the soil: here an uncultivated forest, there a desolate wild; and in a very few places, a spot of earth adorned by art, and smiling with all the luxuriance of nature. To make history, like the soil, truly useful, the obstacles to improvement must be torn away, new assistances must be acquired from art; nor can the work be deemed properly finished till the whole puts on simplicity, uniformity, and elegance. As the case is at present, we must read a library to acquire a knowledge of English history, and, after all, be contented to forget more than we remember. The history of England may be divided, properly enough, into three periods; very different, indeed, with regard to their duration, but almost of equal importance. The first is from the commencement of our knowledge of the country to its conquest by the Normans; the second from the time of William the Conqueror to the alteration of the constitution by the beheading of Charles I.; the last contains the remaining period of our history. It will at once appear that such a division is extremely unequal: the first department may be said to extend to a period of more than a thousand years, the second contains not less than seven hundred, while the remaining does not take up two. Chronologists, indeed, would divide it in a very different manner; however, I am rather inclined to this division, more by the peculiar use which may be made of each period than the mere regularity of time. To consider the first part with accuracy, belongs properly to the philosopher; the second is the business of him who would understand our constitution, and is the proper study of a legislator; and the last, of such as would be acquainted with the connections and relations in which we stand with regard to our neighbours of the continent, and our foreign and domestic trade; that is, in other words, to the merchant and politician.



1 Hutcheson.—Goldsmith.





There is scarce any other passion but that of curiosity excited by a knowledge of the early part of our history. We may go through the accounts of that distant era with the same impartiality with which we consider the original inhabitants of any other country, as the customs of our British ancestors have scarcely any connection with our own: but then, to some minds, it must be a pleasing disquisition to observe the human animal by degrees divesting himself of his native ferocity, and acquiring the arts of happiness and peace; to trace the steps by which he leaves his precarious meal acquired by the chase, for a more certain but a more laborious repast, acquired first by pasturage, then by cultivation.





After the Conquest, the rude outlines of our present constitution began to be formed. Before the Norman invasion, there might be some customs resembling those at present in practice; but the only reason of their continuance was, because they had before been practised in common among the invaders. At this period, therefore, an Englishman becomes interested in the narrative; he perceives the rise and the reasons of several laws which now serve to restrain his conduct or preserve his property. The rights of our monarchs, the claims of foreign potentates, the ineffectual struggles for liberty, and the gradual encroachments of ambition, these highly interest him, as he in some measure owes to these transactions the happiness he enjoys.

But the last period is what is chiefly incumbent upon almost every man to be particularly conversant in. Every person residing here has a share in the liberties of this kingdom, as the generality of the people are ultimately invested with the legislation. It is, therefore, every man's duty to know that constitution, which, by his birthright, he is called to govern: a freeholder, in a free kingdom, should certainly be instructed in the original of that agreement by which he holds so precious a tenure.

These motives equally influence almost every rank of people; but how much more forcibly should they operate upon you, whose honours, whose trusts and possessions, are likely to be so considerable. Others may have their liberties to support; you must sustain your liberty, your property, and the dignity of your station. I shall, therefore, without further preface, in some future correspondence, communicate the result of my inquiries on this subject; a subject which, I own, has employed all the leisure I had to spare from, I will not say more important, but more necessary duties. I shall endeavour, at once, to supply the facts and the necessary consequences that may be deduced from them. I shall separate all that can contribute nothing either to amusement or use, and leave such to dull compilers or systematic writers of history, whose only boast is to leave nothing out. A more thorough knowledge of the subject cannot be communicated without pain, nor acquired without study; perhaps too minute a skill in this, or any one subject, might disqualify the mind for other branches of science, equally demanding our care. Of whatever use it may be, I hope you will consider it as an instance of my regard, though it should fail to add to your opinion of my sagacity.





LETTER XVI

I Have not hitherto said anything of the literature of the present period, having resolved to refer it to a separate letter, in which we may have a more perspicuous view of it than if blended with the ordinary occurrences of the state. Though learning had never received fewer encouragements than in the present reign, yet it never flourished more. That spirit of philosophy which had been excited in former ages, still continued to operate with the greatest success, and produced the greatest men in every profession. Among the divines Atterbury and Clarke distinguished themselves. As a preacher Atterbury united all the graces of style with all the elegance of a just delivery; he was natural, polite, spirited, and his sermons may be ranked among the first of this period. Clarke, on the other hand, despising the graces of eloquence only sought after conviction, with rigorous though phlegmatic exactness, and brought moral truths almost to mathematical precision. Yet neither he, Cudworth, nor any other divine, did such service to the reasoning world as the great Mr. John Locke, who may be justly said to have reformed all our modes of thinking in metaphysical inquiry. Though the jargon of schools had been before him arraigned, yet several of their errors had still subsisted and were regarded as true. Locke, therefore, set himself to overturn their systems and refute their absurdities; these he effectually accomplished, for which reason his book, which when published, was of infinite service, it may be found less useful at present, when the doctrines it was calculated to refute are no longer subsisting.





Among the moral writers of this period, the Earl of Shaftesbury is not to be passed over, whose elegance in some measure recompenses for his want of solidity. The opinions of all latter writers upon moral subjects are only derived from the ancients. Morals are a subject on which the industry of men has been exercised in every age, and an infinite number of systems have been the result. That of Shaftesbury, in which he establishes a natural sense of moral beauty, was originally professed by Plato, and only adorned by the English philosopher. This seemed to be the age of speculation. Berkeley, afterwards Bishop of Cloyne, in Ireland, surpassed all his cotemporaries in subtlety of disquisition; but the mere efforts of reason, which are exerted rather to raise doubt than procure certainty, will never meet with much favour from so vain a being as man. Lord Bolingbroke had also some reputation for metaphysical inquiry; his friends extolled his sagacity on that head, and the public were willing enough to acquiesce in their opinion; his fame therefore might have continued to rise, or at least would have never sunk, if he had never published. His works have appeared, and the public are no longer in their former sentiments. In mathematics and natural philosophy, the vein opened by Newton was prosecuted with success. Dr. Halley illustrated the theory of the tides, and increased the catalogue of the stars, while Gregory reduced astronomy to one comprehensive and regular system. Dr. Friend, in medicine, produced some ingenious theories, which, if they did not improve the art, at least showed his abilities and learning in his profession. Dr. Mead was equally elegant, and more successful; to him is owing the useful improvement of tapping in the dropsy at once by means of a swathe. But of all the other arts, poetry in this age was carried to the greatest perfection. The language for some ages had been improving, but now it seemed entirely divested of its roughness and barbarity. Among the poets of this period we may place John Phillips, author of several poems, but of none more admired than that humorous one, entitled The Splendid Shilling. He lived in obscurity, and died just above want. William Congreve deserves also particular notice; his comedies, some of which were but coolly received upon their first appearance, seemed to mend upon repetition, and he is, at present, justly allowed the foremost in that species of dramatic poesy. His wit is ever just and brilliant, his sentiments new and lively, and his elegance equal to his regularity. Next him Vanbrugh is placed, whose humour seems more natural, and characters more new; but he owes too many obligations to the French, entirely to pass for an original; and his total disregard to decency, in a great measure, impairs his merit. Farquhar is still more lively, and perhaps more entertaining than either; his pieces still continue the favourite performances of the stage, and bear frequent repetition without satiety; but he often mistakes pertness for wit,1 and seldom strikes his characters with proper force or originality. However, he died very young; and it is remarkable that he continued to improve as he grew older, his last play, entitled The Beaux Stratagem, being the best of his productions. Addison, both as a poet and prose writer, deserves the highest regard and imitation. His Campaign and Letter to Lord Halifax from Italy are masterpieces in the former, and his Essays, published in The Spectator, are inimitable specimens of the latter. Whatever he treated of was handled with elegance and precision, and that virtue which was taught in his writings was enforced by his example. Steele was Addison's friend and admirer; his comedies are perfectly polite, chaste, and genteel, nor were his other works contemptible; he wrote on several subjects, and yet it is amazing in the multiplicity of his pursuits how he found leisure for the discussion of any; ever persecuted by creditors, whom his profuseness drew upon him, or pursuing impracticable schemes, suggested by ill-grounded ambition. Dean Swift was the professed antagonist of both Addison and him. He perceived that there was a spirit of romance mixed with all the works of the poets who preceded him; or, in other words, that they had drawn nature on the most pleasing side. There still therefore was a place left for him, who, careless of censure, should describe it just as it was with all its deformities; he therefore owes much of his fame not so much to the greatness of his genius as to the boldness of it. He was dry, sarcastic, and severe, and suited his style exactly to the turn of his thought, being concise and nervous. In this period also flourished many of subordinate fame. Prior was the first who adopted the French elegant easy manner of telling a story, but if what he has borrowed from that nation be taken from him, scarce anything will be left upon which he can lay claim to applause in poetry. Rowe was only outdone by Shakespeare and Otway as a tragic writer; he has fewer absurdities than either, and is perhaps as pathetic as they; but his flights are not so bold, nor his characters so strongly marked. Perhaps his coming later than the rest may have contributed to lessen the esteem he deserves. Garth had success as a poet; and for a time his fame was even greater than his desert. In his principal work, the Dispensary, his versification is negligent, and his plot is now become tedious; but whatever he may lose as a poet, it would be improper to rob him of the merit he deserves for having written the prose dedication and preface to the poem already mentioned, in which he has shown the truest wit with the most refined elegance. Pamell, though he has written but one poem, namely, the Hermit, yet has found a place among the English first-rate poets. Gay likewise, by his Fables and Pastorals, has acquired an equal reputation. But of all who have added to the stock of English poetry, Pope perhaps deserves the first place. On him foreigners look as one of the most successful writers of his time; his versification is the most harmonious, and his correctness the most remarkable, of all our poets. A noted cotemporary of his own calls the English the finest writers on moral topics, and Pope the noblest moral writer of all the English. Mr. Pope has somewhere named himself the last English muse; and, indeed, since his time, we have seen scarce any production that can justly lay claim to immortality; he carried the language to its highest perfection, and those who have attempted still farther to improve it, instead of ornament, have only caught finery.





'"What pert low dialogue has Farquhar writ."—Pope to Augustus.





Such was the learning of this period; it flourished without encouragement, and the English taste seemed to diffuse itself over all Europe. The French tragedies began to be written after the model of ours, our philosophy was adopted by all who pretended to reason for themselves. At present, however, when the learned of Europe are turned to the English writers for instruction, all spirit of learning has ceased amongst us. So little has been got by literature for more than an age that none choose to turn to it for preferment. Church preferments, which were once given as the rewards of learning, have for some time deviated to the intriguing, venal, and base. All desire of novelty in thinking is suppressed amongst us, and our scholars, more pleased with security and ease than honour, coolly follow the reasonings of their predecessors, and walk round the circle of former discovery.





PREFACE1

DR. FORDYCE'S excellent Sermons for Young Women in some measure gave rise to the following compilation. In that work, where he so judiciously points out all the defects of female conduct, to remedy them, and all the proper studies which they should pursue, with a view of improvement, Poetry is one to which he particularly would attach them. He only objects to the danger of pursuing this charming study through all the immoralities and false pictures of happiness with which it abounds, and thus becoming the martyr of innocent curiosity.

In the following compilation, care has been taken to select, not only such pieces as innocence may read without a blush, but such as will even tend to strengthen that innocence. In this little work, a lady may find the most exquisite pleasure, while she is at the same time learning the duties of life; and, while she courts only entertainment, be deceived into wisdom. Indeed, this would be too great a boast in the preface to any original work; but here it can be made with safety, as every poem in the following collection would singly have procured an author great reputation.



i To " Poems for Young Ladies, in three parts; Devotional, Moral, and Entertaining: the whole being a collection of the best pieces in our language.

External Graces all decay;

Their Power is quickly past; A well-formed Mind extends their sway, And bids each Beauty last.—Anonym. London: Printed for J. Payne, in Pater-noster Row. 1767." i2mo. pp. 348.





They are divided into Devotional, Moral, and Entertaining, thus comprehending the three great duties of life—that which we owe to God, to our neighbour, and to ourselves.

In the first part, it must be confessed, our English poets have not very much excelled. In that department, namely, the praise of our Maker, by which poetry began, and from which it deviated by time, we are most faultily deficient. There are one or two, however, particularly The Deity, by Mr. Boyse;1 a poem which, when it first came out, lay for some time neglected, till introduced to public notice by Mr. Hervey and Mr. Fielding. In it the reader will perceive many striking pictures, and perhaps glow with a part of that gratitude which seems to have inspired the writer.



1 Samuel Boyse, born 1708, died 1749. The first edition of The Deity appeared 1740, and the third 175a. The following account of himself has escaped his biographers: "I am, Sir, the only son of Mr. Boyse, of Dublin, a man whose character and writings are well known. My father died in 1728, in very involved circumstances, so that I had nothing left to trust to but a liberal education. In 1730, I removed to Edinburgh, where I published a collection of poems, with a translation of the Tablature of Cebes. After some years' stay there, and many disappointments, I came in 1737 to London, where I have done several essays in the literary way (chiefly poetry), with but slender encouragement. Mr. Cave, for whose magazine I have done many things, and at whose desire I removed to this neighbourhood, has not used me so kindly as the sense he has expressed of my services gave me reason to expect. Learning, however it may be a consolation under affliction, is no security against the common calamities of life. I think myself capable of business in the literary way, but by my late necessities am unhappily reduced to an incapacity of going abroad to seek it." —Bovse to Dr. Birch, Nov. 5, 1742. (Birch MSS. in Brit. Mus.) 1 Goldsmith has included in this division his own Edwin and Angelina.





In the moral part I am more copious,1 from the same reason, because our language contains a large number of the kind. Voltaire, talking of our poets, gives them the preference in moral pieces to those of any other nation; and indeed no poets have better settled the bounds of duty, or more precisely determined the rules for conduct in life, than ours. In this department, the fair reader will find the Muse has been solicitous to guide her, not with the allurements of a siren, but the integrity of a friend.

In the entertaining part, my greatest difficulty was what to reject. The materials lay in such plenty that I was bewildered in my choice: in this case, then, I was solely determined by the tendency of the poem; and where I found one, however well executed, that seemed in the least tending to distort the judgment, or inflame the imagination, it was excluded without mercy. I have here and there, indeed, when one of particular beauty offered with a few blemishes, lopped off the defects; and thus, like the tyrant who fitted all strangers to the bed he had prepared for them, I have inserted some by first adapting them to my plan; we only differ in this, that he mutilated with a bad design, I from motives of a contrary nature. It will be easier to condemn a compilation of this kind than to prove its inutility. While young ladies are readers, and while their guardians are solicitous that they shall only read the best books, there can be no danger of a work of this kind being disagreeable. It offers, in a very small compass, the very flowers of our poetry, and that of a kind adapted to the sex supposed to be its readers. Poetry is an art which no young lady can, or ought to be wholly ignorant of. The pleasure which it gives, and indeed the necessity of knowing enough of it to mix in modern conversation, will evince the usefulness of my design, which is to supply the highest and the most innocent entertainment at the smallest expense; as the poems in this collection, if sold singly, would amount to ten times the price of what I am able to afford the present.



Vol. ix—15





PREFACE«

MY bookseller having informed me that there was no collection of English poetry among us, of any estimation, I thought a few hours spent in making a proper selection would not be ill bestowed. Compilations of this kind are chiefly designed for such as either want leisure, skill, or fortune, to choose for themselves; for persons whose professions turn them to different pursuits, or who, not yet arrived at sufficient maturity, require a guide to direct their application. To our youth, particularly, a publication of this sort may be useful; since, if compiled with any share of judgment, it may at once unite precept and example, show them what is beautiful, and inform them why it is so; I therefore offer this, to the best of my judgment, as the best collection that has yet appeared; though, as tastes are various, numbers will be of a very different opinion. Many, perhaps, may wish to see in it the poems of their favourite authors; others may



i To "The Beauties of English Poesy, selected by Oliver Gold-:" smith. In two volumes. London: Printed for William Griffin, in I Catharine Street in the Strand. 1776. [P. 6s. B.]" 121110.





wish that I had selected from works less generally read; and others still may wish that I had selected from their own. But my design was to give a useful, unaffected compilation; one that might tend to advance the reader's taste, and not impress him with exalted ideas of mine. Nothing so common, and yet so absurd, as affectation in criticism. The desire of being thought to have a more discerning taste than others has often led writers to labour after error, and to be foremost in promoting deformity. In this compilation, I run but few risks of that kind: every poem here is well known, and possessed, or the public has been long mistaken, of peculiar merit; every poem has, as Aristotle expresses it, a beginning, a middle, and an end, in which, however trifling the rule may seem, most of the poetry in our language is deficient. I claim no merit in the choice, as it was obvious; for in all languages the best productions are most easily found. As to the short introductory criticisms to each poem, they are rather designed for boys than men; for it will be seen that I declined all refinement, satisfied with being obvious and sincere. In short, if this work be useful in schools, or amusing in the closet, the merit all belongs to others; I have nothing to boast, and at best can expect, not applause, but pardon.

Oliver Goldsmith.





INTRODUCTORY CRITICISMS

VOLUME I

The Rape Of The Lock.—This seems to be Mr. Pope's most finished production, and is, perhaps, the most perfect in our language. It exhibits stronger powers of imagination, more harmony of numbers, and a greater knowledge of the world, than any other of this poet's works; and it is probable, if our country were called upon to show a specimen of their genius to foreigners, this would be the work fixed upon.

The Hermit.—This poem is held in just esteem, the versification being chaste, and tolerably harmonious, and the story told with perspicuity and conciseness. It seems to have cost great labour, both to Mr. Pope and Parnell himself, to bring it to this perfection. It may not be amiss to observe that the fable is taken from one of Dr. Henry More's Dialogues.

L'allegro And Ii Penseroso.—I have heard

a very judicious critic say that he had an higher

idea of Milton's style in poetry from the two

following poems, than from his Paradise Lost.

sag





It is certain, the imagination shown in them is correct and strong. The introduction to both in irregular measure is borrowed from the Italians, and hurts an English ear.

An Elegy, Written In A Country ChurchYard.—This is a very fine poem, but overloaded with epithet. The heroic measure, with alternate rhyme, is very properly adapted to the solemnity of the subject, as it is the slowest movement that our language admits of. The latter part of the poem is pathetic and interesting.

London: In Imitation of the Third Satire of Juvenal.—This poem of Mr. Johnson's is the best imitation of the original that has appeared in our language; being possessed of all the force and satirical resentment of Juvenal. Imitation gives us a much truer idea of the ancients than even translation could do.

The School-mistress: In Imitation of Spenser. —This poem is one of those happinesses in which a poet excels himself, as there is nothing in all Shenstone which any way approaches it in merit; and though I dislike the imitations of our old English poets in general, yet, on this minute subject, the antiquity of the style produces a very ludicrous solemnity.

Cooper's Hill.—This poem by Denham, though it may have been exceeded by later attempts in description, yet deserves the highest applause, as it far surpasses all that went before it: the concluding part, though a little too much crowded is very masterly.





Eloisa To Abelard.—The harmony of numbers in this poem is very fine. It is rather drawn out to too tedious a length, although the passions vary wifti great judgment. It may be considered as superior to_ anything in the epistolary way; and the many translations which have been made of it into the modern languages, are in some measure a proof of this.

An Epistle From Mr. Phillips To The Earl Of Dorset.—The opening of this poem is incomparably fine. The latter part is tedious and trifling.

Addison's Letter From Italy, To Charles, Lord Halifax, 1701.—Few poems have done more honour to English genius than this. There is in it a strain of political thinking, that was, at that time, new in our poetry. Had the harmony of this been equal to that of Pope's versification, it would be incontestably the finest poem in our language; but there is a dryness in the numbers which greatly lessens the pleasure excited both by the poet's judgment and imagination.

Alexander's Feast; Or The Power Of Music, By John Dryden.—This ode has been more applauded, perhaps, than it has been felt; however, it is a very fine one, and gives its beauties rather at a third or fourth, thr at a first perusal.

Ode For Music On St. Cecilia's Day, By Alexander Pope.—This ode has by many been thought equal to the former. As it is a repetition of Dryden's manner, it is so far inferior to him. The whole hint of Orpheus, with many of the lines, have been taken from an obscure ode upon music, published in Tate's Miscellanies.1





The Shepherd's Week. In Six Pastorals.— These are Mr. Gay's principal performance. They were originally intended, I suppose, as a burlesque on those of Phillips; but, perhaps, without designing it, he has hit the true spirit of pastoral poetry. V In fact, he more resembles Theocritus than any

other English pastoral writer whatsoever. There runs through the whole a strain of rustic pleasantry, which should ever distinguish this species of composition; but how far the antiquated expressions used here may contribute to the humour, I will not determine; for my own part, I could wish the simplicity were preserved, without recurring to such obsolete antiquity for the manner of expressing it.



i "Poems by several Hands and on several occasions. Collected by N. Tate, 1685." As the observation of Goldsmith has escaped the commentators of Pope, I shall give the passage he refers to: "Arm'd with his Harp alone, the Thracian Bard Attempts the shades below: None ask'd him whence he came, or how, Or mutter'd what he was; All stood at gaze, and the bold stroke once heard, Ev'n Hell had silence too. And yet made Holiday: The wheel stood still; none plied the sieve; The rolling stone was gathering moss, The vulture heeded not its prey; His powerful hand did not persuade, but drive; He left no room for thought: the sooty God Smooth'd his rough brow, and made the granting nod."

A Pindarique Essay upon Mustek. By Mr. Wilson.





Macflecknoe.—The severity of this satire and the excellence of its versification, give it a distinguished rank in this species of composition. At present, an ordinary reader would scarcely suppose that Shadwell, who is here meant by MacFlecknoe, was worth being chastised; and that Dryden, descending to such game, was like an eagle stooping to catch flies. The truth, however, is, Shadwell at one time held divided reputation with this great poet. Every age produces its fashionable dunces, who, by following the transient topic or humour of the day, supply talkative ignorance with materials for conversation.

On Poetry. A Rhapsody.—Here follows one of the best versified poems in our language, and the most masterly production of its author. The severity with which Walpole is here treated, was in consequence of that minister's having refused to provide for Swift in England, when applied to for that purpose, in the year 172 5 (if I remember right). The severity of a poet, however, gave Walpole very little uneasiness. A man whose schemes, like this minister's, seldom extended beyond the exigency of the year, but little regarded the contempt of posterity.

Of The Use Op Riches.—This poem, as Mr. Pope tells us himself, cost much attention and labour; and, from the easiness that appears in it, one would be apt to think as much.

From The Dispensary. Canto VI.—This sixth canto of The Dispensary, by Dr. Garth, has more merit than the whole preceding part of the poem, and, as I am told, in the first edition of this work, it is more correct than as here exhibited; but that edition I have not been able to find.1 The praises bestowed on this poem are more than have been given to any other; but our approbation at present is cooler, for it owed part of its fame to party.





Selim; Or, The Shepherd's Moral.—The following eclogues, written by Mr. Collins, are very pretty: the images, it must be owned, are not very local; for the pastoral subject could not well admit of it. The description of Asiatic magnificence and manners is a subject as yet unattempted amongst us, and, I believe, capable of furnishing a great variety of poetical imagery.

The Splendid Shilling.—This is reckoned the best parody of Milton in our language: it has been an hundred times imitated without success. The truth is, the first thing in this way must preclude all future attempts; for nothing is so easy as to burlesque any man's manner, when we are once showed the way.

A Pipe Of Tobacco. In Imitation of Six several Authors.—Mr. Hawkins Browne, the author of these, as I am told, had no good original manner of his own, yet we see how well he succeeds when he turns an imitator; for the following are rather imitations than ridiculous parodies.



i Goldsmith is here mistaken. The revised and enlarged edition of The Dispensary is a great improvement on the first edition. This was the opinion of Pope, from whose judgment in such matters it is seldom safe to differ.





VOLUME 11

A Night-piece On Death.—The great fault of this piece, written by Dr. Parnell, is, that it is in eight-syllable lines, very improper for the solemnity of the subject; otherwise, the poem is natural, and the reflections just.

A Fairy Tale. By Dr. Parnell.—Never was the old manner of speaking more happily applied, or a tale better told, than this.

Palemon And Lavinia.—Mr. Thomson, though in general a verbose and affected poet, has told this story with unusual simplicity. It is rather given here for being much esteemed by the public, than by the editor.

The Bastard.—Almost all things written from the heart, as this certainly was, have some merit. The poet here describes sorrows and misfortunes which were by no means imaginary; and thus there runs a truth of thinking through this poem, without which it would be of little value, as Savage is, in other respects, but an indifferent poet.

The Poet And His Patron, Etc.—Mr. Moore was a poet that never had justice done him while living; there are few of the moderns have a more correct taste, or a more pleasing manner of expressing their thoughts. It was upon these fables he chiefly founded his reputation; yet they are by no means his best production.





An Epistle To A Lady.—This little poem, by Mr. Nugent,1 is very pleasing. The easiness of the poetry, and the justice of the thoughts constitute its principal beauty.

Hans Carvel.—This bagatelle, for which, by the bye, Mr. Prior has got his greatest reputation, was a tale told in all the old Italian collections of jests, and borrowed from thence by Fontaine. It had been translated once or twice before into English, yet was never regarded till it fell into the hands of Mr. Prior. A strong instance how much everything is improved in the hands of a man of genius.

Baucis And Philemon.—This poem is very fine, and, though in the same strain with the preceding,2 is yet superior.

Elegy On The Death Of Mr. Addison.—This elegy (by Mr. Tickell) is one of the finest in our language; there is so little new that can be said upon a death of a friend, after the complaints of Ovid and the Latin Italians in this way, that one is surprised to see so much novelty in this to strike us, and so much interest to affect.

Colin And Lucy. A Ballad.—Through all Tickell's works there is a strain of ballad-thinking, if I may so express it; and in this professed ballad he seems to have surpassed himself. It is, perhaps, the best in our language in this way. %



1 Beginning "Clarinda, dearly lov'd, attend." 'The Ladle, by Prior.





The Tears Of Scotland.—This ode, by Dr. Smollett, does rather more honour to the author's feelings than his taste. The mechanical part, with regard to numbers and language, is not so perfect as so short a work as this requires; but the pathetic it contains, particularly in the last stanza but one, is exquisitely fine.

On The Death Of The Lord Protector.—Our poetry was not quite harmonised in Waller's time; so that this, which would be now looked upon as a slovenly sort of versification, was, with respect to the times in which it was written, almost a prodigy of harmony. A modern reader will chiefly be struck with the strength of thinking, and the turn of the compliments bestowed upon the usurper. Everybody has heard the answer our poet made Charles II. who asked him how his poem upon Cromwell came to be finer than his panegyric upon himself? "Your Majesty," replies Waller, "knows that poets always succeed best in fiction."

The Story Of Phosbus And Daphne Applied, By Waller.—The French claim this as belonging to them. To whomsoever it belongs, the thought is finely turned.

Night Thoughts.—These seem to be the best of the collection; from whence only the two first are taken. They are spoken of differently, either with exaggerated applause or contempt, as the reader's disposition is either turned to mirth or melancholy.

Satires.—Young's Satires were in higher reputation when published than they stand in at present. He seems fonder of dazzling than pleasing; of raising our admiration for his wit, than our dislike of the follies he ridicules.





A Pastoral Ballad.—These ballads of Mr. Shenstone are chiefly commended for the natural simplicity of the thoughts, and the harmony of the versification. However, they are not excellent in either.

Phoibe. A Pastoral.—This, by Dr. Byrom, is a better effort than the preceding.

A Song. "Despairing Beside a Clear Stream."— This, by Mr. Rowe, is better than anything of the kind in our language.

An Essay On Poetry.—This work, by the Duke of Buckingham, is enrolled among our great English productions. The precepts are sensible, the poetry not indifferent, but it has been praised more than it deserves.

Cadenus And Vanessa.—This is thought one of Dr. Swift's correctest pieces; its chief merit, indeed, is the elegant ease with which a story, but ill-conceived in itself, is told.

Alma; Or, The Progress Of The Mind.— What Prior meant by this poem I cannot understand: by the Greek motto to it,1 one would think it was either to laugh at the subject or his reader. There are some parts of it very fine; and let them save the badness of the rest.

1 Haira ycXus, icai iraVra Koto, icai irdvra To fi-rj&b/.

ndira yap i£ iX6y<ov iari Tot yiyvofxtva.-—





PREFACE■

THERE are some subjects on which a writer must decline all attempts to acquire fame, satisfied with being obscurely useful. After such a number of Roman Histories, in all languages, ancient and modem, it would be but imposture to pretend new discoveries, or to expect to offer anything in a work of this kind, which has not been often anticipated by others. The facts which it relates have been a hundred times repeated and every occurrence has been so variously considered, that learning can scarce find a new anecdote, or genius give novelty to the old.

I hope, therefore, for the reader's indulgence, if, in the following attempt, it shall appear, that my only aim was to supply a concise, plain, and unaffected narrative of the rise and decline of a well-known empire; I was contented to make such a book as could not fail of being serviceable, though of all others, the most unlikely to promote the reputation of the writer. Instead, therefore, of pressing forward among the ambitious, I only claim the merit of knowing my own strength, and falling back among the hindmost ranks, with conscious inferiority.



i To "The Roman History; from the Foundation of the City of Rome to the Destruction of the Western Empire, by Dr. Goldsmith. In two volumes. London: Printed for S. Baker and G. Leigh, in York Street; T. Da vies, in Russell Street, Covent Garden; and L. Davis, in Holborn. 1769." 2 vols. 8vo. This Preface is here reprinted from a careful collation of the first edition, with the reprint of it prefixed to the author's own Abridgment of his History.

I21HO. 1773.





I am not ignorant, however, that it would be no difficult task to pursue the same arts by which many dull men, every day, acquire a reputation in history: such might easily be attained, by fixing on some obscure period to write upon, where much seeming erudition might be displayed, almost unknown, because not worth remembering; and many maxims in politics might be advanced, entirely new, because altogether false. But I have pursued a contrary method, choosing the most noted period in history, and offering no remarks, but such as I thought strictly true.

The reasons of my choice were, that we had no history of this splendid period in our language, but what was either too voluminous for common use, or too meanly written to please. Catrou and Rouille's history, in six volumes, folio, translated into our language by Bundy, is entirely unsuited to the time and expense mankind usually choose to bestow upon this subject. Rollin and his continuator Crevier, making above thirty volumes octavo, seem to labour under the same imputation; as likewise Hooke, who has spent three quartos





upon the Republic alone, the rest of his undertaking remaining unfinished. There only, therefore, remained the history by Echard, in five volumes octavo, whose plan and mine seemed to coincide; and, had his execution been equal to his design, it had precluded the present undertaking. But the truth is, it is so poorly written, the facts so crowded, the narration so spiritless, and the characters so indistinctly marked, that the most ardent curiosity must cool in the perusal; and the noblest transactions that ever warmed the human heart, as described by him, must cease to interest. I have endeavoured, therefore, in the present work (or rather compilation) to obviate the inconveniences arising from the exuberance of the former, as well as from the unpleasantness of the latter. It was supposed, that two volumes might be made to comprise all that was requisite to be known, or pleasing to be read, by such as only examined history, to prepare them for more important studies. Too much time may be given even to laudable pursuits, and there is none more apt than this, to allure the student from the necessary branches of learning, and, if I may so express it, entirely to engross his industry. What is here offered, therefore, may be sufficient for all, but such as make history the peculiar business of their lives: to such, the most tedious narrative will seem but an abridgment, as they measure the merits of a work rather by the quantity than the quality of its contents. Others however,

rat. ix—16





who think more soberly, will agree, that in so extensive a field as that of the transactions of Rome, more judgment may be shown by selecting what is important, than by adding what is obscure. The history of this empire has been extended to six volumes folio; and I aver, that with very little learning, it might be increased to sixteen more; but what would this be, but to load the subject with unimportant facts, and so to weaken the narration, as that, like the empire it described, it must necessarily sink beneath the weight of its own acquisitions.

But while I thus have endeavoured to avoid prolixity, it was found no easy matter to prevent crowding the facts, and to give every narrative its proper play. In reality, no art can continue to avoid opposite defects; he who indulges in minute particularities will be often languid; and he who studies conciseness will as frequently be dry and unentertaining. As it was my aim to comprise as much as possible in the smallest compass, it is feared the work will often be subject to the latter imputation; but it was impossible to furnish the public with a cheap Roman History in two volumes octavo, and at the same time to give all that warmth to the narrative, all those colourings to the description, which works of twenty times the bulk have room to exhibit. I shall be fully satisfied, therefore, if it furnishes an interest sufficient to allure the reader to the end; and this is a claim to which few abridgments can justly make pretensions.





To these objections there are some who may add, that I have rejected many of the modern improvements in Roman History, and that every character is left in full possession of that fame or infamy which is obtained from its contemporaries, or those who wrote immediately after. I acknowledge the charge, for it appears now too late to rejudge the virtues or the vices of those men, who were but very incompletely known even to their own historians. The Romans, perhaps, upon many occasions, formed wrong ideas of virtue; but they were by no means so ignorant or abandoned in general, as not to give their brightest characters the greatest share of their applause; and I do not know whether it be fair to try Pagan actions by the standard of Christian morality.

But whatever may be my execution of this work, I have very little doubts about the success of the undertaking: the subject is the noblest that ever employed human attention; and, instead of requiring a writer's aid, will even support him with its splendour. The Empire of the world, rising from the meanest origin, and growing great by a strict veneration for religion, and an implicit confidence in its commanders; continually changing the mode, but seldom the spirit of its government; being a constitution, in which the military power, whether under the name of citizens or soldiers, almost always prevailed; adopting all the improvements of other nations with the most indefatigable industry, and submitting to be





taught by those whom it afterwards subdued. This is a picture that must affect us, however it be disposed; these materials must have their value, under the hand of the meanest workman.

ADVERTISEMENT *

The present Abridgment was suggested by the heads of some of our principal schools. It was thought that the substance of the Roman History, thrown into easy narrative, would excite the curiosity of youth much more agreeably than in the common dry mode of Question and Answer; calculated to turn into task a species of instruction meant certainly for entertainment.



1To "Dr. Goldsmith's Roman History Abridged by Himself for the Use of Schools. London: Printed for S. Baker and G. Leigh, in York Street; T. Davies, in Russell Street, Covent Garden; and L. Davis, in Holborn. 1773." iamo. pp. 311.





PREFACE»

FROM the favourable reception given to my Abridgment of Roman History, published some time since, several friends, and others whose business leads them to consult the wants of the public, have been induced to suppose that an English History, written on the same plan, would be acceptable.

It was their opinion, that we still wanted a work of this kind, where the narrative, though very concise, is not totally without interest, and the facts, though crowded, are yet distinctly seen.

The business of abridging the works of others has hitherto fallen to the lot of very dull men; and the art of blotting, which an eminent critic calls the most difficult of all others, has been usually practised by those who found themselves unable to write. Hence our abridgments are generally more tedious than the works from which they pretend to relieve us; and they have effectually embarrassed that road which they laboured to shorten.



1 To the History of England, 4 vols. 8vo, 1771.





As the present compiler starts with such humble competitors, it will scarcely be thought vanity in him if he boasts himself their superior. Of the many abridgments of our own history, hitherto published, none seems possessed of any share of merit or reputation; some have been written in dialogue, or merely in the stiffness of an index, and some to answer the purposes of a party. A very small share of taste, therefore, was sufficient to keep the compiler from the defects of the one, and a very small share of philosophy from the misrepresentations of the other.

It is not easy, however, to satisfy the different expectations of mankind in a work of this kind, calculated for every apprehension, and on which all are consequently capable of forming some judgment. Some may say that it is too long to pass under the denomination of an abridgment: and others, that it is too dry to be admitted as a history: it may be objected, that reflection is almost entirely banished to make room for facts, and yet, that many facts are wholly omitted, which might be necessary to be known. It must be confessed, that all those objections are partly true; for it is impossible in the same work at once to attain contrary advantages. The compiler, who is stinted in room, must often sacrifice interest to brevity; and, on the other hand, while he endeavours to amuse, must frequently transgress the limits to which his plan should confine him. Thus, all such as desire only amusement may be disgusted with his brevity; and such as seek for information, may object to his displacing facts for empty description.





To attain the greatest number of advantages, with the fewest inconveniences, is all that can be attained in an abridgment, the name of which implies imperfection. It will be sufficient, therefore, to satisfy the writer's wishes, if the present work be found a plain, unaffected narrative of facts, with just ornament enough to keep attention awake, and with reflection barely sufficient to set the reader upon thinking. Very moderate abilities were equal to such an undertaking, and it is hoped the performance will satisfy such as take up books to be informed or amused, without much considering who the writer is, or envying any success he may have had in a former compilation.

As the present publication is designed for the benefit of those who intend to lay a foundation for future study, or desire to refresh their memories upon the old, or who think a moderate share of history sufficient for the purposes of life, recourse has been had only to those authors which are best known, and those facts only have been selected which are allowed on all hands to be true. Were an epitome of history the field for displaying erudition, the author could show that he has read many books which others have neglected, and that he also could advance many anecdotes which are at present very little known. But it must be remembered, that all these minute recoveries could be inserted only to the exclusion of more material facts, which it would be unpardonable to omit. He foregoes, therefore, the petty ambition of being thought a reader of forgotten books; his aim being not to add to our present stock of history, but to contract it.





The books which have been used in this abridg^ ment are chiefly Rapin, Carte, Smollett, and Hume.

They have each their peculiar admirers, in proportion as the reader is studious of historical antiquities, fond of minute anecdote, a warm partisan, or a deliberate reasoner. Of these I have particularly taken Hume for my guide, as far as he goes; and it is but justice to say, that wherever I was obliged to abridge his work, I did it with reluctance, as I scarcely cut out a single line that did not contain a beauty.

But, though I must warmly subscribe to the learning, elegance, and depth of Mr. Hume's History, yet I cannot entirely acquiesce in his principles. With regard to religion, he seems desirious of playing a double part; of appearing to some readers as if he reverenced, and to others as if he ridiculed it. He seems sensible of the political necessity of religion in every state; but at the same time, he would everywhere insinuate, that it owes its authority to no higher an origin. Thus he weakens its influence, while he contends for its utility; and vainly hopes, that while freethinkers shall applaud his scepticism, real believers will reverence him for his zeal.





In his opinions respecting government, perhaps also he may be sometimes reprehensible; but in a country like ours, where mutual contention contributes to the security of the constitution, it will he impossible for an historian who attempts to have any opinion, to satisfy all parties. It is not yet decided in politics, whether the diminution of kingly power in England tends to increase the happiness or the freedom of the people. For my own part, from seeing the bad effects of the tyranny of the great in those republican states that pretend to be free, I cannot help wishing that our monarchs may still be allowed to enjoy the power of controlling the encroachments of the great at home.

A king may easily be restrained from doing wrong, as he is but one man; but if a number of the great are permitted to divide all authority, who can punish them if they abuse it? Upon this principle therefore, and not from empty notions of divine or hereditary right, some may think I have leaned towards monarchy. But as, in the things I have hitherto written, I have neither allured the vanity of the great by flattery, nor satisfied the malignity of the vulgar by scandal, as I have endeavoured to get an honest reputation by liberal pursuits, it is hoped the reader will admit my impartiality.





PREFACE1

NATURAL History, considered in its utmost extent, comprehends two objects. First, that of discovering, ascertaining, and naming all the various productions of nature. Secondly, that of describing the properties, manners, and relations which they bear to us, and to each other. The first, which is the most difficult part of this science, is systematical, dry, mechanical, and incomplete. The second is more amusing, exhibits new pictures to the imagination, and improves our relish for existence, by widening the prospect of nature around us.

Both, however, are necessary to those who would understand this pleasing science in its utmost extent. The first care of every inquirer, no doubt, should be, to see, to visit, and examine every object, before he pretends to inspect its habitudes or its history. From seeing and observing the thing itself, he is most naturally led to speculate upon its uses, its delights, or its inconveniences.



1 To "An History of the Earth, and Animated Nature, by Oliver Goldsmith. In eight volumes. London: Printed for J. Nourse, in the Strand, Bookseller to his Majesty. 1774." 8vo.





Numberless obstructions, however, are found in this part of his pursuit, that frustrate his diligence and retard his curiosity. The objects in nature are so many, and even those of the same kind are exhibited in such a variety of forms, that the inquirer finds himself lost in the exuberance before him, and like a man who attempts to count the stars unassisted by art, his powers are all distracted in the barren superfluity.

To remedy this embarrassment, artificial systems have been devised, which, grouping into masses those parts of nature more nearly resembling each other, refer the inquirer for the name of the single object he desires to know, to some one of those general distributions where it is to be found by further examination.

If, for instance, a man should in his walks meet with an animal, the name, and consequently the history of which he desires to know, he is taught by systematic writers of natural history to examine its most obvious qualities, whether a quadruped, a bird, a fish, or an insect. Having determined it, for explanation sake, to be an insect, he examines whether it has wings; if he finds it possessed of these, he is taught to examine whether it has two or four; if possessed of four, he is taught to observe whether the two upper wings are of a shelly hardness, and serve as cases to those under them; if he finds the wings composed in this manner he is then taught to pronounce, that this insect is one of the beetle kind; of the beetle kind there are three different classes, distinguished from each other by their feelers; he examines the insect before him, and finds that the feelers are clavated or knobbed at the ends; of beetles, with feelers thus formed, there are ten kinds, and among those, he is taught to look for the precise name of that which is before him. If, for instance, the knob be divided at the ends, and the belly be streaked with white, it is no other than the Dor or the Maybug, an animal, the noxious qualities of which give it a very distinguished rank in the history of the insect creation. In this manner, a system of natural history may, in some measure, be compared to a dictionary of words. Both are solely intended to explain the names of things; but with this difference, that in the dictionary of words, we are led from the name of the thing to its definition, whereas, in the system of natural history, we are led from the definition to find out the name.





Such are the efforts of writers, who have composed their works with great labour and ingenuity, to direct the learner in his progress through nature, and to inform him of the name of every animal, plant, or fossil substance that he happens to meet with; but it would be only deceiving the reader to conceal the truth, which is, that books alone never can teach him this art in perfection; and the solitary student can never succeed. Without a master, and a previous knowledge of many of the objects of nature, his book will only serve to confound and disgust him. Few of the individual plants or animals that he may happen to meet with are in that precise state of health, or that exact period of vegetation, from whence their descriptions were taken. Perhaps he meets the plant only with leaves, but the systematic writer has described it in flower. Perhaps he meets the bird before it has moulted its first feathers, while the systematic description was made in its state of full perfection. He thus ranges without an instructor, confused and with sickening curiosity, from subject to subject, till at last he gives up the pursuit in the multiplicity of his disappointments.





Some practice, therefore, much instruction, and diligent reading, are requisite to make a ready and expert naturalist, who shall be able, even by the help of a system, to find out the name of every object he meets with. But when this tedious, though requisite part of study is attained, nothing but delight and variety attend the rest of his journey. Wherever he travels, like a man in a country where he has many friends, he meets with nothing but acquaintances and allurements in all the stages of his way. The mere uninformed spectator passes on in gloomy solitude, but the naturalist, in every plant, in every insect, and every pebble, finds something to entertain his curiosity, and excite his speculation.





From hence it appears, that a system may be considered as a dictionary in the study of nature. The ancients, however, who have all written most delightfully on this subject, seem entirely to have rejected those humble and mechanical helps of science. They contented themselves with seizing upon the great outlines of history; and passing over what was common, as not worth the detail, they only dwelt upon what was new, great, and surprising, and sometimes even warmed the imagination at the expense of truth. Such of the moderns as revived this science in Europe, undertook the task more methodically, though not in a manner so pleasing. Aldrovandus, Gesner, and Johnson, seemed desirous of uniting the entertaining and rich descriptions of the ancients, with the dry and systematic arrangement of which they were the first projectors. This attempt, however, was extremely imperfect, as the great variety of nature was, as yet, but very inadequately known. Nevertheless, by attempting to carry on both objects at once; first, of directing us to the name of the thing, and then giving the detail of its history, they drew out their works into a tedious and unreasonable length; and thus mixing incompatible aims, they have left their labours rather to be occasionally consulted, than read with delight by posterity.

The later moderns, with that good sense which they have carried into every other part of science, have taken a different method in cultivating natural history. They have been content to give, not only the brevity, but also the dry and disgusting air of a dictionary to their systems. Ray, Klin, Brisson, and Linnaeus, have had only one aim, that of pointing out the object in nature, of discovering its name, and where it was to be found in those authors that treated of it in a more prolix and satisfactory manner. Thus, natural history, at present, is carried on in two distinct and separate channels, the one serving to lead us to the thing, the other conveying the history of the thing, as supposing it already known.





The following Natural History is written with only such an attention to system, as serves to remove the reader's embarrassments, and allure him to proceed. It can make no pretensions in directing him to the name of every object he meets with; that belongs to works of a very different kind, and written with very different aims. It will fully answer my design, if the reader, being already possessed of the name of any animal, shall find here a short, though satisfactory history of its habitudes, its subsistence, its manners, its friendships, and hostilities. My aim has been to carry on just as much method as was sufficient to shorten my descriptions by generalising them, and never to follow order where the art of writing, which is but another name for good sense, informed me that it would only contribute to the reader's embarrassment.

Still, however, the reader will perceive, that I have fonned a kind of system in the history of every part of animated nature, directing myself by the great obvious distinctions that she herself seems to have made, which, though too few to point exactly to the name, are yet sufficient to illuminate the subject, and remove the reader's perplexity. M. Buffon, indeed, who has brought greater talents to this part of learning than any other man, has almost entirely rejected method in classing quadrupeds. This, with great deference to such a character, appears to me running into the opposite extreme; and, as some moderns have of late spent much time, great pains, and some learning, all to very little purpose, in systematic arrangement, he seems so much disgusted by their trifling, but ostentatious efforts, that he describes his animals almost in the order they happen to come before him. This want of method seems to be a fault; but he can lose little by a criticism which every dull man can make, or by an error in arrangement, from which the dullest are the most usually free.



jttAt





In other respects, as far as this able philosopher has gone, I have taken him for my guide. The warmth of his style, and the brilliancy of his imagination , are inimitable. Leaving him therefore, without a rival in these, and only availing myself of his information, I have been content to describe things in my own way; and though many of the materials are taken from him, yet I have added, retrenched, and altered, as I thought proper. It was my intention at one time, whenever I differed from him, to have mentioned it at the bottom of the page; but this occurred so often, that I soon found it would look like envy, and might, perhaps, convict me of those very errors which I was wanting to lay upon him. I have, therefore, as being every way his debtor, concealed my dissent, where my opinion was different; but wherever I borrow from him, I take care at the bottom of my page to express my obligations. But, though my obligations to this writer are many, they extend but to the smallest part of the work, as he has hitherto completed only the history of quadrupeds. I was, therefore, left to my own reading alone, to make out the history of birds, fishes, and insects, of which the arrangement was so difficult, and the necessary information so widely diffused, and so obscurely related when found, that it proved by much the most laborious part of the undertaking. Thus, having made use of M. Buffon's fights in the first part of this work, I may, with some share of confidence, recommend it to the public. But what shall I say to that part, where I have been entirely left without his assistance? As I would affect neither modesty nor confidence, it will be sufficient to say, that my reading upon this part of the subject has been very extensive; and that I have taxed my scanty circumstances in procuring books, which are on this subject, of all others, the most expensive. In consequence of this industry, I here offer





VOL. IX 17





a work to the public, of a kind which has never been attempted in ours, or in any other modern language that I know of. The ancients, indeed, and Pliny in particular, have anticipated me in the present manner of treating natural history. Like those historians who describe the events of a campaign, they have not condescended to give the private particulars of every individual that formed the army; they were content with characterising the generals, and describing their operations, while they left it to meaner hands to carry the muster-roll. I have followed their manner, rejecting the numerous fables which they adopted, and adding the improvements of the moderns, which are so numerous, that they actually make up the bulk of natural history.

The delight which I found in reading Pliny, first inspired me with the idea of a work of this nature. Having a taste rather classical than scientific, and having but little employed myself in turning over the dry labours of modern systemmakers, my earliest intention was to translate this agreeable writer, and by the help of a commentary, to make my work as amusing as I could. Let us dignify natural history never so much with the grave appellation of a useful science, yet still we must confess, that it is the occupation of the idle and the speculative, more than of the busy and the ambitious part of mankind. My intention, therefore, was to treat what I then conceived to be an idle subject, in an idle manner; and not to hedge round plain and simple narratives with hard words, accumulated distinctions, ostentatious learning, and disquisitions that produced no conviction. Upon the appearance, however, of M. Buffon's work, I dropped my former plan, and adopted the present, being convinced by his manner, that the best imitation of the ancients was to write from our own feelings, and to imitate nature.





It will be my chief pride, therefore, if this work may be found an innocent amusement for those who have nothing else to employ them, or who require a relaxation from labour. Professed naturalists will, no doubt, find it superficial; and yet I should hope, that even these will discover hints and remarks, gleaned from various reading, not wholly trite or elementary. I would wish for their approbation. But my chief ambition is to drag up the obscure and gloomy learning of the cell to open inspection; to strip it from its garb of austerity, and to show the beauties of that form, which only the industrious and the inquisitive have been hitherto permitted to approach.1



1 This is the last piece of prose for publication which Goldsmith wrote: and what sweet Virgilian prose it is.





CONTRIBUTIONS

TO

THE CRITICAL REVIEW

IN

1757. 1759. AND I760





The periodical contributions of Goldsmith to The Monthly Review and The Critical Review were first added to Goldsmith's works in the edition of 1837, where they are mixed together as "Miscellaneous Criticisms," and "Poetical Criticisms." I have thought fit to separate them, keeping the contributions to each Review apart, and in strict chronological order. My reasons for so doing are that The Monthly Review was edited by a bookseller and his wife, while The Critical Review was edited by an eminent author—by Smollett. Griffiths and his wife were in the habit of altering the contributions of their humble dependant; and though Smollett probably exercised the same power it is clear that the alterations of the bookseller and his wife would not be comparable to the alterations made by an editor of Smollett's skill.





THE CRITICAL REVIEW



I.—MASSEY'S TRANSLATION OF OVID'S FASTI

"Ovid's Fasti; or, the Roman Sacred Calendar, Translated into English Verse, with Explanatory Notes. By William Massby. Master of a boarding-school at Wandsworth." 8vo.

IT was no bad remark of a celebrated French lady,1 that a bad translator was like an ignorant footman, whose blundering messages disgraced his master by the awkwardness of the delivery, and frequently turned compliment into abuse, and politeness into rusticity. We cannot indeed see an ancient elegant writer mangled and misrepresented by the doers into English without some degree of indignation; and are heartily sorry that our poor friend Ovid should send his Sacred Calendar to us by the hands of Mr. William Massey, who, like the valet, seems to have entirely forgot his master's message, and substituted another in its room very unlike it. Mr. Massey observes, in his preface, with great truth, that it is strange that this most elaborate and learned of all Ovid's works should be so much neglected by our English translators; and that it should be so little read or regarded, whilst his Tristia, Epistles, and Metamorphoses, are in almost every schoolboy's hands. "All the critics, in general," says he, "speak of this part of Ovid's writings with a particular applause; yet I know not by what unhappy fate there has not been that use made thereof, which would be more beneficial, in many respects, to young students of the Latin tongue, than any other of this poet's works. For though Pantheons, and other books that treat of the Roman mythology, may be usefully put into the hands of young proficients in the Latin tongue, yet the richest fund of that sort of learning is here to be found in the Fasti. I am not without hopes, therefore, that by thus making this book more familiar and easy, in this dress, to English readers, it will the more readily gain admittance into our public schools; and that those who become better acquainted therewith, will find it an agreeable and instructive companion, well stored with recondite learning. I persuade myself also, that the notes which I have added to my version will be of advantage, not only to the mere English reader, but likewise to such as endeavour to improve themselves in the knowledge of the Roman language.



i Madame de Lafayette.—Goldsmith.





"As the Latin proverb says, J acta est alea; and my performance must take its chance, as those of other poetic adventurers have done before me. I am very sensible, that I have fallen in many places far below my original; and no wonder, as I had to copy after so fertile and polite a genius as Ovid's; who, as my Lord Orrery, somewhere in Dean Swift's Life, humorously observes,'could make an instructive song out of an old almanack.'





"That my translation is more diffuse, and not brought within the same number of verses contained in my original, is owing to two reasons: firstly, because of the concise and expressive nature of the Latin tongue, which it is very difficult (at least I find it so) to keep to strictly, in our language; and secondly, I took the liberty sometimes to expatiate a little upon my subject, rather than leave it in obscurity, or unintelligible to my English readers, being indifferent whether they may call it translation or paraphrase; for, in short, I had this one design most particularly in view, that these Roman Fasti might have a way opened for their entrance into our grammar schools."

What use this translation may be of to grammar schools, we cannot pretend to guess, unless, by way of foil, to give the boys a higher opinion of the beauty of the original by the deformity of so bad a copy. But let our readers judge of Mr. Massey's performance by the following specimen. For the better determination of its merit, we shall subjoin the original of every quotation.





"The calends of each month throughout the year,'

Are under Juno's kind peculiar care;

But on the ides, a white lamb from the field,

A grateful sacrifice, to Jove is kill'd;

But o'er the nones no guardian god presides;

And the next day to calends, nones, and ides,

Is inauspicious deem'd; for on those days

The Romans suffer'd losses many ways;

And from those dire events, in hapless war,

Those days unlucky nominated are."



Ovid's address to Janus, than which in the original scarcely anything can be more poetical, is thus familiarised into something much worse than prose by the translator:—



"Say, Janus, say, why we begin the year"

In winter? sure the spring is better far:

All things are then renew'd; a youthful dress

Adorns the flowers, and beautifies the trees;

New swelling buds appear upon the vine,

And apple blossoms round the orchard shine;

Birds fill the air with the harmonious lay,



'Vindicat Ausonias Junonis cura kalendas:

Idibus alba Jovi grandior agna cadit.

Nonarum tutela Deo caret. Omnibus istis



(Ne fallere cave) proximus Ater erit. Omen ab eventu est: illis nam Roma diebus Damna sub adverso tristia Marte tulit.

» Dic, age, frigoribus quare novus incipit annus,

Qui melius per ver incipiendus erat?



Omnia tunc florent: tunc est nova temporis setas

Et nova de gravido palmite gemma tumet.



Et modo formatis amicitur vitibus arbos:

Prodit et in summum seminis herba solum:



Et tepidum volucres concentibus aera mulcent.





And lambkins in the meadows frisk and play;

The swallow then forsakes her wint'ry rest;

And in the chimney chatt'ring makes her nest;

The fields are then renew'd, the ploughman's care;

May n't this be call'd renewing of the year?

To my long questions Janus brief replied,

And his whole answer to two verses tied.

The winter tropic ends the solar race,

Which is begun again from the same place;

And to explain more fully what you crave,

The sun and year the same beginning have.

But why on new-year's day, said I again,

Are suits commenc'd in courts? The reason 's plain,

Replied the god; that business may be done,

And active labour emulate the sun,

With business is the year auspiciously begun;

But every artist, soon as he has tried

To work a little, lays his work aside.

Then I; but further, Father Janus, say,

When to the gods we our devotions pay,

Why wine and incense first to thee are given?



Ludit et in pratis, luxuriatque pecus.

Turn blandi soles: ignotaque prodit hirundo;



Et luteum celsa sub trabe fingit opus.

Turn patitur cultus ager, et renovatur aratro.



Haec anni novitas jure vocanda fuit.

QuEesieram multis: non multis ille moratus,



Contulit in versus sic sua verba duos.

Bruma novi prima est, veterisque novissima solis



Principium capiunt Phoebus et annus idem.

Post ea mirabar, cur non sine litibus esset



Prima dies. Causam percipe, Janus ait. Tempora commisi nascentia rebus agendis;

Totus ab auspicio ne foret annus iners.

Quisque suas artes ob idem delibat agendo:



Nec plus quam solitum testificatur opus.

Mox ego; cur, quam vis aliorum numina placem,



Jane, tibi primo thura merumque fero?





Because, said he, I keep the gates of heaven;

That when you the immortal powers address,

By me to them you may have free access.

But why on new-year's day are presents made,

And more than common salutations paid?

Then, leaning on his staff, the god replies,

In all beginnings there an omen lies;

From the first word, we guess the whole design,

And augurs, from the first-seen bird, divine;

The gods attend to every mortal's prayer,

Their ears and temples always open are."



Is there a possibility that any thing can be more different from Ovid in Latin than this Ovid in English? Quam sibi dispar! The translation is indeed beneath all criticism. But let us see what Mr. Massey can do with the sublime and more animated parts of the performance, where the subject might have given him room to show his skill, and the example of his author stirred up the fire of poetry in his breast, if he had any in it. Towards the end of the second book of the Fasti, Ovid has introduced the most tender and interesting story of Lucretia. The original is inimitable. Let us see what Mr. Massey has made of it in his translation.



Ut per me possis aditum, qui limina servo,

Ad quoscunque velim prorsus habere deos.

At cur laeta tuis dicuntur verba kalendis;



Et dam us alternas accipimusque preces?

Turn deus incumbens baculo, quern dextra gerebat,



Omina principiis, inquit, inesse solent.

Ad primam vocem timidas advertitis aures:



Et visam primam consulit augur avem.

Templa patent auresque deum: nec lingua caduca



Concipit ulla preces; dictaquc pondus habent.





After he has described Tarquin returning from the sight of the beautiful Lucretia, he proceeds thus:—

"The near approach of day the cock declar'd,1

By his shrill voice, when they again repair'd

Back to the camp; but Sextus there could find

Nor peace nor ease for his distemper'd mind;

A spreading fire does in his bosom burn,

Fain would he to the absent fair return;

The image of Lucretia fills his breast,

Thus at her wheel she sat! and thus was drest!

What sparkling eyes, what pleasure in her look!

How just her speech, and how divinely spoke!

Like as the waves, rais'd by a boisterous wind,

Sink by degrees, but leave a swell behind:

So though by absence lessen'd was his fire,

There still remain'd the kindlings of desire;

Unruly lust from hence began to rise,

Which how to gratify he must devise;

All on a rack, and stung with mad designs,

He reason to his passion quite resigns;

Whate'er 's th' event, said he, I 'll try my fate,

Suspense in all things is a wretched state;





1 Jam dederat cantum lucis praenuncius ales:

Cum referunt juvenes in sua castra pedem. Carpitur attonitos absentis imagine sensus

Me: recordanti plura magisque placent.

Sic sedit: sic culta fuit: sic stamina nevit;



Neglectae collo sic jacuere comae:

Hos habuit vultus: hic illi verba fuere:



Hic decor, haac facies, hic color oris erat.

Ut solet a magno fluctus languescere flatu;



Sed tamen a vento, qui fuit ante, tumet:

Sic, quamvis aberat placitae praesentia formae,



Quem dederat praesens forma, manebat amor.

Ardet; et injusti stimulis agitatus amoris



Comparat indigno vimque dolumque toro.

Exitus in dubio est: audebimus ultima, dixit:





Let some assistant god, or chance, attend,

All bold attempts they usually befriend:

This way, said he, I to the Gabii trod;

Then girding on his sword, away he rode.

The day was spent, the sun was nearly set,

When he arriv'd before Collatia's gate;

Like as a friend, but with a sly intent,

To Collatinus' house he boldly went;

There he a kind reception met within

From fair Lucretia, for they were akin.

What ignorance attends the human mind!

How oft we are to our misfortunes blind!

Thoughtless of harm, she made a handsome feast,

And o'er a cheerful glass regal'd her guest

With lively chat; and then to bed they went;

But Tarquin still pursued his vile intent;

All dark, about the dead of night he rose,

And softly to Lucretia's chamber goes;

His naked sword he carried in his hand,

That what he could not win, he might command;

With rapture on her bed himself he threw,

And as approaching to her lips he drew,

Dear cousin, ah, my dearest life, he said,



Viderit, audentis forsne deusne juvet. Cepimus audendo Gabios quoque. Talia fatus

Ense latus cingit: tergaque pressit equi. Accipit aerata juvenem Collatia porta:

Condere jam vultus sole parante suos. Hostis, ut hospes, init penetralia Collatina:

Comiter excipitur: sanguine junctus erat.

Quantum animis erroris inest! parat inscia rerum



Infelix epulas hostibus ilia suis.

Functus erat dapibus: poscunt sua tempora somni.



Nox erat; et tota lumina nulla domo.

Surgit, et auratum vagina deripit ensem:



Et venit in thalamos, nupta pudica, tuos.

Utque torum pressit; ferrum, Lucretia, mecum est,





'T is I, 't is Tarquin, why are you afraid?

Trembling with fear, she not a word could say,

Her spirits fled, she fainted quite away;

Like as a lamb beneath a wolf's rude paws,

Appall'd and stunn'd, her breath she hardly draws.

What can she do? resistance would be vain,

She a weak woman, he a vig'rous man.

Should she cry out? his naked sword was by;

One scream, said he, and you this instant die:

Would she escape? his hands lay on her breast,

Now first by hands of any stranger prest:

The lover urg'd by threats, rewards, and prayers;

But neither prayers, rewards, nor threats, she hears:

Will you not yield? he cries; then know my will—

When these my warm desires have had their fill,

By your dead corpse I 'll kill and lay a slave,

And in that posture both together leave;

Then feign myself a witness of your shame,

And fix a lasting blemish on your fame.

Her mind the fears of blemish'd fame control,

And shake the resolutions of her soul;

But of thy conquest, Tarquin, never boast,



Natus, ait, regis, Tarquiniusque vocor.

Ilia nihil: neque enim vocem viresque loquendi,



Aut aliquid toto pectore mentis habet.

Sed tremit, ut quondam stabulis deprensa relictis,



Parva sub infesto cum jacet agne lupo.

Quid faciat? pugnet? vincetur femina pugna.



Clamet? at in dextra, qui necet, ensis adest. Effugiat? positis urgetur pectora palmis;

Nunc primum externa pectora tacta manu. Instat amans hostis precibus, pretioque, minisque,

Nec prece, nec pretio, nec movet ille minis.

Nil agis; eripiam, dixit, per crimina vitam:



Falsus adulterii testis adulter ero.

Interimam famulum; cum quo deprensa fereris.



Succubuit fama? victa puella metu.

VOL. IX—18





Gaining that fort, thou hast a kingdom lost;

Vengeance thy complicated guilt attends,

Which both in thine, and fam'ly's ruin ends.

With rising day the sad Lucretia rose,

Her inward grief her outward habit shows;

Mournful she sat in tears, and all alone,

As if she'd lost her only darling son;

Then for her husband and her father sent,

Who Ardea left in haste to know th' intent;

Who, when they saw her all in mourning drest

To know the occasion of her grief, request;

Whose funeral she mourn'd desir'd to know,

Or why she had put on those robes of woe?

She long conceal'd the melancholy cause,

While from her eyes a briny fountain flows:

Her aged sire, and tender husband, strive

To heal her grief, and words of comfort give;

Yet dread some fatal consequence to hear,

And begg'd she would the cruel cause declare."



Our readers will easily perceive by this short specimen, how very unequal Mr. Massey is to a translation of Ovid. In many places he has deviated entirely from the sense, and in every



Quid, victor, gaudes ? haec te victoria perdet.

Heu quanto regnis nox stetit una tuis! Jamque erat orta dies: passis sedet ilia capillis;

Ut solet ad nati mater itura rogum.

Grandaevumque patrem fido cum conjuge castris



Evocat; et posita venit uterque mora.

Utque vident habitum; quae luctus causa, requirunt:



Cui paret exsequias, quove sit icta malo.

Ilia diu reticet, pudibundaque celat amictu



Ora. Fluunt lacrymae more perennis aquae.

Hinc pater, hinc conjux lacrymas solantur, et orant



Indicet: et caeco flentque paventque metu.

Ter conata loqui, etc.





part fallen infinitely below the strength, elegance, and spirit of the original. We must beg leave, therefore, to remind him of the old Italian proverb,—"II Tradattores Tradatore,"—and hope he will never for the future traduce and injure any of those poor ancients who never injured him, by thus pestering the world with such translations as even his own schoolboys ought to be whipped for.1



1 "It was the merit which he [Goldsmith] discovered in criticising a despicable translation of Ovid's Fasti by a pedantic schoolmaster; and his Enquiry into the Present State of Polite Literature, which first introduced him to the acquaintance of Dr. Smollett."—The Westminster Magazine for 1774, p. 167.





II.—MARRIOTT'S FEMALE CONDUCT

"Female Conduct; being an Essay on the Art of Pleasing. To be practised by the Fair Sex, before and after Marriage. A Poem in two books. Inscribed to Plautilla. By Thomas Marriott, Esq." 8vo.

THIS performance is dedicated to her Royal Highness the Princess of Wales,1 as the distinguished patroness of female virtue. In the preface, the author gives some account of the poem, and endeavours to anticipate the malevolence of the critics. He expresses apprehension on one subject, which, however, we will venture to say is groundless; that is, "some people will say he is too much a poet." He might also have spared his apology for having used "every art of persuasion and argument, either by repetition, amplification, tale, fable, example, or allegory, and every pleasing manner of conveying precepts, and enforcing doctrines." Mr. Marriott needs no excuse for that which cannot be displeasing. This poem, we are informed, is intended for the use and amusement of the female sex only; and the author hopes the salutary precepts and precautions it contains, may prove an antidote to the poison of Ovid, and all modern productions of the like pernicious nature. We hope so too, and commend the author for the morality of his undertaking.



'Widow of Frederick Prince of Wales, and mother of George III.





Prefixed to the poem we find an ode on the death of the Duke of Marlborough,1 together with an imitation of the eighth ode of the fourth book of Horace, intended to be sent to his grace at the beginning of the new year. In this piece, the most remarkable circumstance is this: Mr. Marriott, thinking Horace begins and ends too abruptly, has ventured to introduce the original with two Latin lines of his own composition, and added six at the end, to render Horace more complete. He might, however, have saved himself the trouble of lacing his own lines in the margin: the reader would have distinguished them without this precaution. Perhaps the public may be curious to see this improvement on a Roman classic. He begins, then, in this manner:—

"Annus quando novus nascitur, illius

Natalisque dies orbe revolvitur;—



He concludes thus:—



"Oreo, Musa, pios eripiens nigro,

Arces, carminibus, tollit ad igneas;

Nomen grande tuum net amabilis,

Vatum materies, Musa tuis dabit



1Charles,thirdDukeofMarlborough.died 1758. SeeVol.VI.,p.963.





Mercedem mentis, Te faciet sacrum,

Sublimem, astra supra, Te vehet, ardua."



The poem itself is divided into two books, and contains many curious particulars. His account of Portia's death is very sublime:—

"Fam'd Portia, worthy of her mate and sire,

Express'd such friendship, when she swallowed fire;

Soon as she heard of her dear Brutus' death,

Her consort breathless, she disdain'd to breath;

Each instrument of death, to her denied,

'Shall Portia be debarr'd from death?' she cried,

Then drank live embers, and intrepid died."



We wish Mr. Marriott would explain the manner in which the ancients drank live embers.

In p. 59, he candidly owns, that he has laboured hard in bringing these poems to perfection:—

"Hear me, fair pupil, ne'er despise the bard

Whose muse for your instruction labours hard."



In the next page we meet with this curious paradox:—

"Her witty child, let the fond mother boast,

You show most wit, when you conceal it most."



This, for aught we know, may be the author's own case; for he seems to have a particular knack at concealing his wit.

There is something so agreeable, yet familiar, in his precepts!—

"Red heels, a wise man's head will ridicule."





"From smart cock'd hat, let no vain streamers fly."

"I only warn you—ne'er your teeth neglect;

White teeth will make amends for each defect."



"To singing add the force of music too."

This is a very necessary injunction; for it is very common to hear singing without music.

"Make not your houses Babels, ah! no more

Let numerous torches smear th' indecent door!"



"A curtsey makes impression, if made well,

Learn then to curtsey with an air genteel."



Rather than pick out any more flowers of this kind, with which the poem abounds, we will make a few extracts, from which the poet's genius may be more justly estimated:—

"Let no provoking words your wrath attend,

Lest passion should in dire disaster end;

How tragical had been Zantippe's fate,

Had Socrates not been her peaceful mate!

You may just hint a fault, while you commend

His well-known merit, like a faithful friend.

If distant hints from you he 'll not receive,

Desist; no curtain-lectures to him give;

Think not to tame him, like some savage beast,

By oft disturbing his nocturnal rest:

Though much he may repeated lessons need,

Sacred to concord is the genial bed:

Thence far be sour, contentious, jarring noise!

There dwell in silence, reconciling joys;

There love's bright lamp is fed with new desire,

Rekindled there, it never will expire.





"Once I through thin partition chanc'd to hear A curtain-lecture, with astonish'd ear: It wak'd, and scar'd me, in the dead of night, Ere I my senses could recover quite; It sounded like a seraph's plaintive voice, So dire the sound, so solemn was the noise: Trembling I heard, nor dar'd to ope my eyes, Lest I might view a horrid spectre rise. Soon I perceiv'd it was a woman's tongue, Rehearsing to her mate each nuptial wrong; Obdurate he, and stupid as a dunce, Heard unconcern'd, nor interrupted once; Till faint and spent, she falter'd in her speech, And, quite exhausted, could no longer preach; When her speech fail'd, she soon began to cry, And ev'ry tear had its attendant sigh. Then he, to aggravate each nuptial wrong, Wish'd death would silence soon her clam'rous tongue. Thus every curtain-lecture, preach'd in vain, Gives to the preacher, not the hearer, pain. To hint a fault requires the nicest touch, The pride of self-sufficient man is such; Few with good grace can give or take advice, So few think others than themselves more wise; Their faults the wisest are averse to hear; Touch gently, lest you hurt a tender ear."



He concludes the book with the following imitation of Virgil at the close of his Georgics:—

"Retir'd in rural shades I sung these lays,

That teach a maid and wife the art to please;

While Marlbro' executes what George commands,

And British thunder pours on Gallic lands;

While glowing with hereditary fires,

To his great sire's achievements he aspires."





To draw a comparison between Ovid and our bard, we may observe, that as one performance of the former was styled Tristia from the subject, so this production may derive the same title from the execution, and be justly denominated "Marriott's Tristia." l



Marriott replied to this. See Article xiv., p. 375.





III.—BARRETT'S OVID'S EPISTLES

"Ovid's Epistles translated into English verse; with Critical Essays and Notes. Being part of a Poetical and Oratorical Lecture, read in the Grammar School of Ashjord in the County of Kent; and calculated to initiate Youth in the first Rudiments of Taste. By Stephen Barrett, A.M., Master of the said School." 8vo.

THE praise which is every day lavished upon Virgil, Horace, or Ovid, is often no more than an indirect method the critic takes to compliment his own discernment. Their works have long been considered as models of beauty; to praise them now is only to show the conformity of our taste to theirs; it tends not to advance their reputation, but to promote our own. Let us then dismiss, for the present, the pedantry of panegyric; Ovid needs it not, and we are not disposed to turn encomiasts on ourselves.

It will be sufficient to observe, that the multitude of translators which have attempted this poet, serves to evince the number of his admirers; and their indifferent success, the difficulty of equalling his elegance or his ease.

Dryden, ever poor, and ever willing to be

obliged, solicited the assistance of his friends, for

ate





a translation of these epistles. It was not the first time his miseries obliged him to call in happier bards to his aid; and to permit such to quarter their fleeting performances on the lasting merit of his name. This eleemosynary translation, as might well be expected, was extremely unequal, frequently unjust to the poet's meaning, almost always so to his fame. It was published without notes; for it was not at that time1 customary to swell every performance of this nature with comment and scholia. The reader did not then choose to have the current of his passions interrupted, his attention every moment called off from pleasure only, to be informed why he was so pleased. It was not then thought necessary to lessen surprise by anticipation, and, like some spectators we have met at the play-house, to take off our attention from the performance, by telling in our ear, what will follow next.

Since this united effort, Ovid, as if born to misfortune, has undergone successive metamorphoses, being sometimes transposed by schoolmasters unacquainted with English, and sometimes transversed by ladies who knew no Latin: thus he has alternately worn the dress of a pedant or a rake; either crawling in humble prose, or having his hints explained into unbashful meaning. Schoolmasters, who knew all that was in him, except his graces, give the names of places

< 1680.





and towns at full length, and he moves along stiffly in their literal versions, as the man who, as we are told in the Philosophical Transactions, was afflicted with an universal anchylosis. His female imitators, on the other hand, regard the dear creature only as a lover; express the delicacy of his passion by the ardour of their own; and if now and then he is found to grow a little too warm, and perhaps to express himself a little indelicately, it must be imputed to the more poignant sensations of his fair admirers. In a word, we have seen him stripped of all his beauties in the versions of Stirling and Clark, and

talk like a debauchee in that of Mrs. ;l but

the sex should ever be sacred from criticism; perhaps the ladies have a right to describe raptures, which none but themselves can bestow.

A poet, like Ovid, whose great beauty lies rather in expression than sentiment, must be necessarily difficult to translate. A fine sentiment may be conveyed several different ways, without impairing its vigour; but a sentence delicately expressed, will scarcely admit the least variation without losing beauty. The performance before us will serve to convince the public that Ovid is more easily admired than imitated. The translator, in his notes, shows an ardent zeal for the reputation of his poet. It is possible, too, he may have felt his beauties; however, he does not seem possessed of the happy art of giving his feelings expression. If a kindred spirit, as we have often been told, must animate the translator, we fear the claims of Mr. Barrett will never receive a sanction in the heraldry of Parnassus.



i Miss Elizabeth Caroline Keene; who, in 1758, published a translation of Dido's Epistle to /Eneas.





His intentions, even envy must own, are laudable; nothing less than to instruct boys, schoolmasters, grown gentlemen, the public, in the principles of taste (to use his own expression), both by precept and example. His manner it seems is, "to read a course of poetical lectures to his pupils one night in the week; which, beginning with this author, running through select pieces of our own, as well as the Latin and Greek writers, and ending with Longinus, contributes no little towards forming their taste." No little! reader, observe that, from a person so perfectly master of the force of his own language: what may not be expected from his comments on the beauties of another?

But, in order to show in what manner he has executed these intentions, it is proper he should first march in review as a poet. We shall select the first epistle that offers, which is that from Penelope to Ulysses, observing beforehand, that the whole translation is a most convincing instance, that English words may be placed in Latin order, without being wholly unintelligible. Such forced transpositions serve at once to give an idea of the translator's learning, and of difficulties surmounted.





PENELOPE TO ULYSSES

"This, still your wife, my ling'ring lord! I send;

Yet be your answer personal, not penn'd."



These lines seem happily imitated from Taylor, the water-poet, who has it thus:—

"To thee, dear Ursula, these lines I send, Not with my hand, but with my heart, they 're penn'd."

But not to make a pause in the reader's pleasure, we proceed.

"Sunk now is Troy, the curse of Grecian dames!

(Her king, her all, a worthless prize!) in flames.

0 had by storms (his fleet to Sparta bound)

Th' adult'rer perish'd in the mad profound!"



Here seems some obscurity in the translation: we are at a loss to know what is meant by the mad profound. It can certainly mean neither Bedlam nor Fleet-ditch; for though the epithet mad might agree with one, or profound with the other, yet when united they seem incompatible with either. The profound has frequently been used to signify bad verses; and poets are sometimes said to be mad: who knows but Penelope wishes that Paris might have died in the very act of rhyming; and as he was a shepherd, it is not improbable to suppose but that he was a poet also.

"Cold in a widow'd bed I ne'er had lay,

Nor chid with weary eyes the ling'ring day."





Lay for lain, by the figure ginglimus. Our translator makes frequent use of this figure.

"Nor the protracted nuptials to avoid,

By night unravell'd what the day employ'd.

When have not fancied dangers broke my rest?

Love, tim'rous passion! rends the anxious breast.

In thought I saw you each fierce Trojan's aim,

Pale at the mention of bold Hector's name!"



Ovid makes Penelope shudder at the name of Hector. Our translator, with great propriety, transfers the fright from Penelope to Ulysses himself: it is he who grows pale at the name of Hector; and well indeed he might; for Hector is represented by Ovid, somewhere else, as a terrible fellow, and Ulysses as little better than a poltroon.

"Whose spear when brave Antilochus embrued,

By the dire news awoke, my fear renew'd.

Clad in dissembled arms Patroclus died:

And, 'Oh the fate of stratagem!' I cried.

Tlepolemus, beneath the Lycian dart,

His breath resign'd, and rous'd afresh my smart.

Thus, when each Grecian press'd the bloody field,

Cold icy horrors my fond bosom chill'd."



Here we may observe how epithets tend to strengthen the force of expression. First, her horrors are cold, and so far Ovid seems to think also; but the translator adds, from himself, the epithet icy, to show that they are still colder:— a fine climax of frigidity!

"But Heaven, indulgent to my chaste desire,

Has wrapp'd (my husband safe) proud Troy in fire."





The reader may have already observed one or two instances of our translator's skill, in parenthetically clapping one sentence within another. This contributes not a little to obscurity; and obscurity, we all know, is nearly allied to admiration. Thus, when the reader begins a sentence which he finds pregnant with another, which still teems with a third, and so on, he feels the same surprise which a countryman does at Bartholomew Fair. Hocus shows a bag, in appearance empty; slap, and out come a dozen new laid eggs; slap again, and the number is doubled: but what is his amazement, when it swells with the hen that lays them!

"The Grecian chiefs return, each altar shines,

And spoils of Asia grace our native shrines.

Gifts, for their lords restor'd, the matrons bring;

The Trojan fates o'ercome, triumphant sing;

Old men and trembling maids admire the songs,

And wives hang, list'ning, on their husbands' tongues."



Critics have expatiated, in raptures, on the delicate use the ancients have made of the verb pendere. Virgil's goats are described as hanging on the mountain side; the eyes of a lady hang on the looks of her lover. Ovid has increased the force of the metaphor, and describes the wife as hanging on the lips of her husband. Our translator has gone still farther, and described the lady as pendent from his tongue. A fine picture!

"Now, drawn in wine, fierce battles meet their eyes, And Uion's towers in miniature arise:





There stretch'd Sigean plains, here Simois flow'd;

And there old Priam's lofty palace stood.

Here Peleus' son encamp'd, Ulysses there;

Here Hector's corpse distained the rapid car."



"Of this the Pylian sage in quest of thee

Embark'd, your son inform'd his mother he."



If we were permitted to offer a correction upon the two last lines, we would translate them into plain English thus, still preserving the rhyme entire.

The Pylian sage inform'd your son embark'd in quest of thee,

Of this, and he his mother, that is me.



"He told how Rhesus and how Dolon fell,

By your wise conduct and Tydides' steel;

That doom'd by heavy sleep oppress'd to die,

And this prevented, a nocturnal spy!



"Rash man! unmindful what your friends you owe,

Night's gloom to tempt, and brave a Thracian foe.

By one assisted in the doubtful strife;

To me how kind! how provident of life!

Still throbb'd my breast, till, victor, from the plain,

You join'd, on Thracian steeds, th' allies again.



"But what to me avails high Ilium's fall,

Or soil continued o'er its ruin'd wall;

If still, as when it stood, my wants remain;

If still I wish you in these arms in vain?



"Troy, sack'd to others, yet to me remains,

Though Greeks, with captive oxen, till her plains,

Ripe harvests bend where once her turrets stood;

Rank is her soil, manur'd with Phrygian blood;



»OL. IX—19





Harsh on the ploughs, men's bones, half buried, sound,

And grass each ruin'd mansion hides around.

Yet, hid in distant climes, my conq'ror stays;

Unknown the cause of these severe delays!



"No foreign merchant to our isle resorts,

But question'd much of you, he leaves our ports;

Hence each departing sail a letter bears

To speak (if you are found) my anxious cares.



"Our son to Pylos cut the briny wave;

But Nestor's self a dubious answer gave:

To Sparta next—nor even could Sparta tell

What seas you plough, or in what region dwell!



"Better had stood Apollo's sacred wall:

0 could I now my former wish recall!

War my sole dread, the scene I then should know;

And thousands then would share the common woe:

But all things now, not knowing what to fear,



1 dread; and give too large a field to care.

Whole lists of dangers, both by land and sea,

Are muster'd, to have caus'd so long delay.



"But while your conduct thus I fondly clear,

Perhaps (true man!) you court some foreign fair;

Perhaps you rally your domestic loves,

Whose art the snowy fleece alone improves.



No! may I err, and start at false alarms;

May nought but force detain you from my arms.

"Urg'd by a father's right again to wed,

Firm I refuse, still faithful to your bed!

Still let him urge the fruitless vain design;

I am—I must be—and I will be thine.

Though melted by my chaste desires, of late

His rig'rous importunities abate.





"Of teasing suitors a luxurious train,

From neighbouring isles, have cross'd the liquid plain.

Here uncontroll'd th' audacious crews resort,

Rifle your wealth, and revel in your court.

Pisander, Polybus, and Medon, lead,

Antinous and Eurymachus succeed,

With others, whose rapacious throats devour

The wealth you purchas'd once, distain'd with gore.

Melanthius add, and Irus, hated name!

A beggar rival to complete our shame.



"Three, helpless three! are here; a wife not strong,

A sire too aged, and a son too young,

He late, by fraud, embark'd for Pylos' shore,

Nigh from my arms for ever had been tore."



These two lines are replete with beauty: nigh, which implies approximation, and from, which implies distance, are, to use our translator's expressions, drawn as it were up in a line of battle. Tore is put for torn, that is, torn by fraud from her arms; not that her son played truant and embarked by fraud, as a reader who does not understand Latin might be apt to fancy.

"Heaven grant the youth survive each parent's date, And no cross chance reverse the course of fate. Your nurse and herdsman join this wish of mine, And the just keeper of your bristly swine."

Our translator observes in a note, that "the simplicity expressed in these lines is so far from being a blemish, that it is, in fact, a very great beauty: and the modern critic, who is offended with the mention of a sty, however he may pride himself upon his false delicacy, is either too shortsighted to penetrate into real nature, or has a stomach too nice to digest the noblest relics of antiquity." He means, no doubt, to digest a hog-sty; but, antiquity apart, we doubt if even Powell the fire-eater himself could bring his appetite to relish so unsavoury a repast.





"By age your sire disarm'd, and wasting woes,

The helm resigns, amidst surrounding foes.

This may your son resume (when years allow),

But oh! a father's aid is wanted now.

Nor have I strength his title to maintain,

Haste then, our only refuge, o'er the main."



"A son, and long may Heaven the blessing grant,

You have, whose years a sire's instructions want.

Think how Laertes drags an age of woes,

In hope that you his dying eyes may close;

And I, left youthful, in my early bloom,

Shall aged seem, how soon soe'er you come."



But let not the reader imagine we can find pleasure in thus exposing absurdities, which are too ludicrous for serious reproof. While we censure as critics, we feel as men, and could sincerely wish that those whose greatest sin is, perhaps, the venial one of writing bad verses, would regard their failure in this respect as we do, not as faults, but foibles; they may be good and useful members of society, without being poets. The regions of taste can be travelled only by a few, and even those often find indifferent accommodation by the way. Let such as have not got a passport from nature be content with happiness, and leave the poet the unrivalled possession of his misery, his garret, and his fame.





We have of late seen the republic of letters crowded with some who have no other pretensions to applause but industry, who have no other merit but that of reading many books, and making long quotations: these we have heard extolled by sympathetic dunces, and have seen them carry off the rewards of genius; while others, who should have been born in better days, felt all the wants of poverty, and the agonies of contempt. Who, then, that has a regard for the public, for the literary honour of our country, for the figure we shall one day make among posterity, that would not choose to see such humbled as are possessed only of talents that might have made good cobblers, had fortune turned them to trade? Should such prevail, the real interests of learning must be in a reciprocal proportion to the power they possess. Let it be then the character of our periodical endeavours, and hitherto we flatter ourselves it has ever been, not to permit an ostentation of learning to pass for merit, nor to give a pedant quarter upon the score of his industry alone, even though he took refuge behind Arabic, or powdered his hair with hieroglyphics. Authors thus censured may accuse our judgment, or our reading, if they please, but our own hearts will acquit us of envy or ill-nature, since we reprove only with a desire to reform.





But we had almost forgot that our translator is to be considered as a critic as well as a poet; and in this department he seems also equally unsuccessful with the former. Criticism at present is different from what it was upon the revival of taste in Europe: all its rules are now well known; the only art at present is, to exhibit them in such lights as contribute to keep the attention alive, and excite a favourable audience. It must borrow graces from eloquence, and please while it aims at instruction: but instead of this, we have a combination of trite observations, delivered in a style in which those who are disposed to make war upon words will find endless opportunities of triumph.

He is sometimes hypercritical. Thus, page 9, "Pope, in his excellent Essay on Criticism (as will, in its place, when you come to be lectured upon it, at full be explained), terms this making the sound an echo to the sense. But I apprehend that definition takes in but a part, for the best ancient poets excelled in thus painting to the eye as well as to the ear. Virgil, describing his housewife preparing her wine, exhibits the act of the fire to the eye.

'Aut dulcis musti Vulcano decoquit humorem,

Et foliis undam trepidi dispumat aheni.'



For the line (if I may be allowed the expression) boils over; and, in order to reduce it to its proper bounds, you must, with her, skim off the redundant syllable." These are beauties which, doubtless, the reader is displeased he cannot discern.





Sometimes confused: "There is a deal of artful and concealed satire in what Oenone throws out against Helen; and to speak truth, there was fair scope for it, and it might naturally be expected. Her chief design was to render his new mistress suspected of meretricious arts, and make him apprehensive that she would hereafter be as ready to leave him for some new gallant, as she had before, perfidiously to her lawful husband, followed him."

Sometimes contradictory: thus, page 3, "Style [says he] is used by some writers as synonymous with diction, yet, in my opinion, it has rather a complex sense, including both sentiment and diction." Oppose to this, page 135. "As to concord, and even style, they are acquirable by most youth in due time, and by many with ease; but the art of thinking properly, and choosing the best sentiments on every subject, is what comes later."

And sometimes he is guilty of false criticism: as when he says, Ovid's chief excellence lies in description. Description was the rock on which he always split; "Nescivit quod bene cessit relinquere," as Seneca says of him: when once he embarks in description, he most commonly tires us before he has done with it. But to tire no longer the reader, or the translator, with extended censure; as a critic, this gentleman seems to have drawn his knowledge from the remarks of others, and not his own reflection; as a translator, he understands the language of Ovid, but not his beauties; and though he may be an excellent schoolmaster, he has, however, no pretensions to taste.





IV.—SPENSER'S FAERIE QUEENE

"TheFairieQueetM. By Edmund Spenser. A New Edition, with Notes, Critical and Explanatory, by Ralph Church, M.A., late Student of Christ Church, Oxon." In four volumes, 8vo.

IT is the remark of Boccalini, that a writer, whose works have passed through a number of editions after his decease, would hardly know his own performances again if he were to rise from the dead. Critics mistake his meaning, or are desirous of giving a new one of their own. Dunces interpolate the text, and printers, too, add their faults to swell the account: so that the poet at last, like a river which receives a new tincture from every soil through which it flows, makes a very different appearance from that with which he set out.1

Perhaps no writer confirms the truth of this remark more than Spenser; for, in proportion as the number of editions of the Faerie Queene have increased, the text has become more precarious; so that it was absolutely necessary to compare subsequent ones with that published by himself, and thus restore his meaning, where it had deviated from ancient correctness and simplicity. Mr. Church, in the edition in view, has completed this undertaking, and merits all the praise due to an exact and cautious editor. Here we see our old favourite rising once more from his faults, and borrowing all the helps of exact punctuation. We can now tread the regions of fancy without interruption, and expatiate on fairy wilds, such as our great magician has been pleased to represent them. There is a pleasing tranquillity of mind which ever attends the reading of this ancient poet. We leave the ways of the present world, and all the ages of primeval innocence and happiness rise to our view.1 Virgil, and even Homer, seem to be modern, upon the comparison. The imagination of his reader leaves reason behind, pursues the tale, without considering the allegory, and upon the whole, is charmed without instruction.



1 No modern British Classic has been a greater sufferer in this respect than Goldsmith himself.





It is, it must be owned, somewhat surprising, that Spenser, who was so well acquainted with Virgil, should not have adopted the JEneid of the Roman poet, rather than the Romans of the Wises and Jongleurs, his more immediate predecessors. It is true he has endeavoured to soften this defect, by forming his work into an allegory; however, the pleasure we receive from this species of composition, though never so finely balanced between truth and fiction, is but of a subordinate nature, as we have always two passions opposing each other; a love of reality, which represses the flights of fancy, and a passion for the marvellous, which would leave reflection behind.



1 "After reading a canto of Spenser, two or three days ago, to an old lady between seventy and eighty years of age, she said that I had been showing her a gallery of pictures. I don't know how it is, but she said very right; there is something in Spenser that pleases one as strongly in one's old age as it did in one's youth. I read the Faerie Queene when I was about twelve, with infinite delight; and I think it gave me as much when I read it over about a year or two ago."—Popb, 1743-44. Spence, by Singer, p. 297.





However, with all his faults, no poet enlarges the imagination more than Spenser. Cowley was formed into poetry by reading him; and many of our modern writers, such as Gray, Akenside, and others, seem to have studied his manner with the utmost attention: from him their compounded epithets, and solemn flow of numbers, seem evidently borrowed; and the verses of Spenser may, perhaps, one day be considered the standard of English poetry. It were happy indeed, if his beauties were the only objects of modern imitation; but many of his words, justly fallen into disuse among his successors, have been of late revived, and a language, already too copious, has been augmented by an unnecessary reinforcement. Learning and language are ever fluctuating, either rising to perfection or retiring into primeval barbarity: perhaps the point of English perfection is already passed, and every intended improvement may now be only deviation. This at least is certain, that posterity will perceive a strong similitude between the poets of the sixteenth, and those of the latter end of the eighteenth century.





To this edition of Spenser's works, the editor has prefixed some account of his life, gleaned from his own and contemporary writings. There is a strong similitude between the lives of almost all our English poets. The ordinary of Newgate, we are told, has but one story, which serves for the life of every hero that happens to come within the circle of his pastoral care; however unworthy the resemblance appears, it may be asserted, that the history of one poet might serve with as little variation for that of any other. Born of creditable parents, who gave him a pious education; however, in spite of all their endeavours, in spite of all the exhortations of the minister of the parish on Sundays, he turned his mind from following good

things, and fell to writing verses! Spenser, in

short, lived poor, was reviled by the critics of his time, and died at last in the utmost distress. There are some quotations brought in proof of this, from a poem called The Purple Island, which, as the reader may have never seen, we shall beg leave to transcribe. "The poet had been speaking of the discouragements attending learning and the muses:

Stanza 17.

'But wretched we to whom these iron daies

(Hard daies) afford nor matter nor reward!—





19.

'Witnesse our Colin; whom though all the Graces

And all the Muses nurst; whose well taught song, Parnassus self, and Glorian embraces, And all the learn'd, and all the shepherds throng; Yet all his hopes were crost, all suits denied, Discourag'd, scorn'd, his writings vilifi'd: Poorly (poore man) he liv'd; poorly (poore man) he di'd.

20.

'And had not that great Hart (whose honour'd head



Ah! lies full low), piti'd thy wofull plight;

There hadst thou lien unwept, unburied,



Unblest, nor grac'd with any common rite:

Yet shalt thou live, when thy great foe shall sink

Beneath his mountain tombe, whose fame shall stink,

And time his blacker name shall blurre with blackest ink.



91,

'0! let th' Iambick muse revenge that wrong,

Which cannot slumber in thy sheets of lead:

Let thy abused honour crie as long



As there be quills to write, or eyes to reade:

On his rank name let thine own votes be turn'd,

Oh may that man that hath the Muses scorn'd,

Alive, nor dead, be ever of a Muse adorn'd.'



"The reader will excuse our tempting his curiosity, by adding, that the author of these agreeable lines is Phineas Fletcher, nephew to Richard Fletcher, Bishop of London.1 As we have taken the liberty to introduce on this occasion this poet so little known, we cannot but add, that he seems to be of Spenser's own turn of mind. At Hilgay1 't is most likely this ingenious and good man passed his days, privately and humbly, and with all the modest sentiments with which he everywhere abounds. We cannot but think of him and love him, when he mentions



1 Goldsmith might have added that the Bishop was the father of the great dramatic poet, Beaumont's associate.





'the blushing strawberries, Which lurk close shrouded from high-looking eyes, Showing that sweetness oft both low and hidden lies:'

"And we cannot but revere and envy him, when giving us advice:—

'Would'st thou live honour'd? clip Ambition's wing;

To Reason's yoke thy furious passions bring: Thrice noble is the man who of himself is king!'"

The notes to this edition are mostly imitations or various readings, and sufficiently evince the editor's industry, though they contribute little to enlighten the reader. There is also a glossary of the obsolete terms which are not explained in the notes; and, in short, such helps as are sufficient to understand the poet, without any ostentation of learning in the learned editor.



'In Norfolk. He is supposed to have died there about the year 1650.





V.—LANGHORNE'S DEATH OF ADONIS, FROM THE GREEK OF BION

"The Death of Adonis: a Pastoral Elegy, from the Greek of Bion. By the Rev. John Langhorne." 1 4to.

OF all the different kinds of poetry, elegy has been least cultivated since the revival of letters. We have seen the ancients rivalled, sometimes excelled, in the epic, the ode, or the pastoral; but in elegy they still remain without competitors, and the attempts of Bidermann, Fontaine, Deshoulieres, and Hammond, serve only to evince their inferiority. This may seem the more surprising, as there is scarcely a beauty in poetry, that elegy is not capable of admitting; sometimes replete with pathetic simplicity, sometimes even assuming the bold metaphors of resentment, and often borrowing every ornament that art can bestow: in a word, is tender, passionate, or graceful, by turns. Elegy may be distinguished into three different kinds, as either of them happens to prevail. It is Love, and not the poet, who speaks: like a true boy, he is easily enraged, and as easily appeased; now exulting with success, again melting into tears of disappointment; when angry, threatening impossibilities; when appeased, repenting his insolence with the most abject humility. But whatever the pretences of the moderns, or even of the Latins, may be to this beautiful species of poetry, the little poem before us bears away the prize, and is incontestably the finest production of the elegiac Muse, if we except that of Euripides, in his Andromaclie. We shall not enter into a disquisition with the grammarians, whether it be an elegy or not, as it wants what they term the characteristic difference of this species of poesy; viz. an alternate succession of hexameters and pentameters: be it sufficient to observe, that it unites every charm that a beautiful passion can suggest, and though simple, yet it is simplex munditiis. Some modern critics, it is true, have asserted, that plaintive elegy should be entirely unornamented: it might be sufficient to answer, that the practice of the ancients is against them; but nature itself also opposes this doctrine. A despairing lover, it is true, has no occasion to be tricked out like a beau, but yet should be sufficiently beautiful to interest the spectators with favourable sentiments, sufficiently ornamented to seem still desirous of pleasing. Elegy should in some measure resemble the poet's mistress.



1 Author of the Country Justice, Owen of Carron, etc. Born 1735, died 1779.





Pupureo jacuit semisupina toro

Tamque fuit neglecta decens.





"Stretched on this mountain thy torn lover lies;

Weep, queen of beauty! for he bleeds—he dies.

Ah! yet behold life's last drops faintly flow,

In streams of purple, o'er those limbs of snow!

From the pale cheek the perish'd roses fly;

And death dims slow the ghastly-gazing eye.

Kiss, kiss those fading lips, ere chill'd in death;

With soothing fondness stay the fleeting breath.

Tis vain—ah! give the soothing fondness o'er!

Adonis feels the warm salute no more."



There is no species of poetry that has not its particular character; and this diversity, which the ancients have so religiously observed, is founded in nature itself. The more just their imitations are found, the more perfectly are those characters distinguished. Thus the pastoral never quits his pipe, in order to sound the trumpet; nor does elegy venture to strike the lyre. It is indeed passionate, but has nothing terrible; nor is there, in the wildest rage of a lover, aught that can excite a stronger emotion than pity.

"But streaming when he saw life's purple tide

Stretch'd her fair arms, with trembling voice she cried;

Yet stay, lov'd youth! a moment ere we part,

O let me kiss thee!—hold thee to my heart 1

A little moment, dear Adonis! stay!

And kiss thy Venus, ere those lips are clay.

That last-left pledge shall sooth my tortur'd breast,

When thou art gone."



Let it not be thought that emotion alone will suffice for making an elegy, and that love will make a greater poet than study and genius. Passion alone will never produce a finished piece; it may, indeed, furnish the most natural sentiments, if we attend its impulses; but it is art alone that must turn them to use, and join the graces of expression.





"Wretch that I am! immortal and divine,

In life imprison'd whom the fates confine,

He comes! receive him to thine iron arms;

Blest queen of death! receive the prince of charms.

Far happier then, to whose wide realms repair,

Whatever lovely, and whatever fair.

The smiles of joy, the golden hours, are fled;

Grief, only grief, survives Adonis dead."



As the philosopher asserted, that he learned the truest philosophy in Homer, so he who would write a perfect elegy, should study the performance before us with the closest application. From one example of this kind, he will learn more than from all the precepts critics have delivered on the subject. He will here perceive beauty in distress, borrowing the language of nature and passion, and adapting sentiments to the subject; the thoughts rising, as of their own accord, without being sought after; the verse flowing with various harmony; the whole combined by a concealed connection, yet seemingly without order: in short, our idea increasing, by just degrees, to the end of the piece; like those landscapes that rise upon the eye, till they seem to touch the skies.





"Thus Venus griev'd—the Cupids round deplore,

And mourn her beauty and her love no more.

Now flowing tears in silent grief complain,

Mix with the purple streams, and flood the plain.

Yet not in vain those sacred drops shall flow,

The purple streams in blushing roses glow,

And catching life from ev'ry falling tear,

Their azure heads anemonies shall rear.

But cease in vain to cherish dire despair,

Nor count thy sorrows to the desert air.

The last sad office let thy hand supply,

Stretch the stiff limbs, and close the glaring eye."



It is not thus that many of our moderns have composed what they call elegies: they seem scarcely to know its real character. If a hero or a poet happens to die with us, the whole board of elegiac poets raise the dismal chorus, adorn his hearse with all the paltry escutcheons of flattery, rise into bombast, paint him as at the head of his thundering legions, or reining Pegasus in his most rapid career: they are sure to strew cypress enough upon the bier, dress up all the muses in mourning, and look themselves every whit as dismal and sorrowful as an undertaker's shop. Neither pomp nor flattery agrees with real affliction: it is not thus that Marcellus, even that Marcellus who was adopted by the emperor of the world, is bewailed by Propertius. His beauty, his strength, his milder virtues, seem to have caught the poet's affections, and inspired his affliction. Were a person to die in these days, though he was never at a battle in his life, our elegiac writers would be sure to make one for the occasion. Our lovers, too, if they are really in love, seem more solicitous to show their wit than their passion, adapt trifling ornaments to broad sentiments, and somewhat resemble the lawyer, who cared not whether he gained or lost his cause, provided he could make the court admire his eloquence.





"Je hais ces vains auteurs, dont la muse forcee,

M'entretient de ses feux, toujour froid, et glacee,

Qui s'affligent par art, et foux de sens rassis

S'^rigent pour rimer en amoureux transit."



Boileau.

With respect to the present translation, from the instances already given, the reader need scarcely be informed, that it is very elegant, and tolerably correct. Several of the minor poets are as yet without translations: we hope that an hint will not be lost.





VI.—GOGUET ON THE ORIGIN AND PROGRESS OF LAWS, ARTS, AND SCIENCES

"De VOrigine des Loix, des Arts, et des Sciences; et de leurs Progres chez les Anciens Peuples. Par M. le President Gogubt." ■ 3 vols, in 4to. Paris.

THERE is a prettiness, a neatness, and symmetry of parts in the plan of most French books, which we admire, even while we hold the abilities of the author in contempt. Their specious manner we often mistake for solid erudition, and the superficial elegance of a gentleman frequently passes for the depth, labour, and judgment of the scholar. Such is the happy genius of this lively nation, that the most profound speculations are treated by them with the freedom of a novel; and Descartes and Newton so refined and polished, as to make no ungraceful appearance in the drawing-room. This has its good as well as bad effects; it gives lustre to the other accomplishments of the man of fashion, but it banishes true science into cells and cloisters. We should gladly see their writers studied by our beaux, but less closely copied by our authors. It is the privilege of a Frenchman to usher his solemn trifles with the grave visage of philosophy. Their very bagatelles have in them something pleasing, that arrests the judgment, and leaves the reader in suspense whether most to applaud or condemn. This art we may admire, but never imitate. The British writer, who affects formality and method, without profound learning, betrays his ignorance and becomes ridiculous. Nor is he more successful in his attempts to be lively, without a native fund of humour. But the Frenchman, with no great share of either, is sure of being agreeable in both. Energy, accuracy, and industry would seem to characterise the one; beauty, and elegance of drapery, with a certain happiness of design, are the distinguishing marks of the other. By the former, a thought is scrupulously examined in every light; by the latter it is placed with little trouble in the most striking. The one separates, compares, and pursues his subject with pain; the other playfully skims over the surface, but with an eye so piercing, as, without removing the veil, seems at one glance to dive into the deeps of science. Here a writer is strained and tortured into all the distortions of the Pythian goddess, to utter what he knows; there he talks with a decisive dignity and a graceful eloquence, upon subjects of which he is totally ignorant; nay, he almost persuades us that his facility arises from his knowledge.1 The author before us will, in some measure, illustrate the truth of these remarks.



1 Antoine-Yves Goguet, born at Paris, 1716; died there 1758.





M. Goguet appears to us rather a writer of genius than of erudition; yet by dint of the former we would imagine him possessed of the latter. He has spread his learning with so light and masterly a hand, that no part of the performance seems wanting, although in the aggregate it is little more than a shadow or phantom of knowledge. His subject requires depth, and his plan proposes it: but alas! in the execution we find only the skeleton, draught, and outlines of his design remaining to be filled up by some future artist. In three volumes octavo, Mr. President Goguet has comprised a subject, which, in the hands of some writers, would have swelled to ten times the number in folio. If it should please God to turn the heart of a certain learned gentleman to so useful an undertaking, we may soon expect to see Dr. Radcliffe's library replenished with much profound learning, and this stupendous monument of pride converted to better purposes than being the object of stupid admiration of every head as empty as its walls, that now visits alma mater.

Our author has here given a history of the rise and progress of science, which, as he justly observes, may be termed a history of the human mind from its infancy to its maturity, full growth, and perfection. When we first set about reading our historian, when we perused his preface, where he professes to give an accurate view of facts, as first principles; to trace the origin of laws, arts, and sciences, in the manner most agreeable to these principles; and lastly, to connect the variety of different objects in so regular a chain as at one glance to show their mutual influence, we doubted not but the wish of our great Lord Verulam was accomplished. But we reckoned without our host, our author's performance falls infinitely short of the big idea of that noble sage: for with vast pomp of method, and an almost disgusting parade of erudition (having quoted near four hundred authors ancient and modern), he appears to have taken many facts upon slight authority; to have rejected others which are well attested; to have misrepresented some; and, upon the whole, to be injudicious in his choice of facts, and superficial in his reflections. He complains, and with reason, that those who have hitherto pursued this path, have failed in the attempt, through want of ability or industry to examine facts with the necessary minuteness. This seems to be the rock, on which he likewise has split; and we fear that such as may henceforward work on the materials he has collected, will have no less cause of complaint. In short, his prefatory promises are performed with the integrity usual in such introductory pieces, and we need not



1 We would here be understood to speak of the general characters of writers; which supposes numberless exceptions on both sides.— Goldsmith.





The ruins of Lyttleton House—the home of General Napier.

Che De*erte$ Village.





scruple to apply to him what he says of the diligent Paracelsus: "Tout y est hazarded Les faits les plus faux, et les contes les plus apocryphes y sont adoptes aveuglement. Cet ouvrage prouve une parfaite negligence, joint a une demangeaison extreme de faire un livre." Indeed, this itch of book-making, this cacoethes scribendi, seems no less the prevailing disorder of England than of France. "Scribimus indocti, doctique."

M. Goguet, after a short sketch of the state of mankind before the flood, begins his history with that great era, which he continues to the death of Jacob, making this period the first division of his performance. Here he treats of the establishment of positive laws under two classes, the last of which he calls the civil law. He gives a short view of the constitution, government, and laws of the Assyrians, Babylonians, Egyptians, and Greeks, in the earliest ages. He touches upon their agriculture, and arts necessary to the support of life; shows their origin and gradual progress, but is sparing in his reflections on the causes of their growth and rise. Then he proceeds to the origin of weaving, dyeing, architecture, metallurgy, etching, embossing, carving, sculpture, and designing in general. Under this head he includes the first use of writing, and its progress to the year 1690 before the birth of our Saviour. Hence he proceeds to the sciences, under which he ranks surgery, anatomy, botany, and pharmacy, which, in our opinion, he ought to have placed under the arts. His next division of science consists of arithmetic, astronomy, geometry, mechanics, and geography. Mechanics he treats of after geometry, because to it they owe their perfection. For the same reason astronomy ought to be placed after geometry and mechanics. It is true, that to geometry they both owe their high degree of perfection, but not their birth. The spade, the mattock, and balance were used, and many observations on the heavens made, before geometry came to be applied to discover the powers of the wedge and lever, or the distance and magnitude of the planets. To deep speculation, indeed, they owe their progress; but their discovery seems to be the result of accident, of necessity, and that sort of observation peculiar to the human intellect. Next follows the art of war, upon which M. Goguet has spent more pains in being explicit, than upon any of the former topics. Then he comes to the manners and customs of Asiatics and Europeans, without descending to the sub-distinctions of each particular nation; the whole historical part of this period concluding with critical remarks upon it.





Having finished this barren disquisition, he proceeds to the second period, viz., from the death of Jacob to the establishment of monarchy among the Hebrews. This he has treated in the same order and method as the preceding. The third period contains a space of 560 years, that is, from the end of the former to the return of the Hebrews from captivity; to which are subjoined some curious extracts from Chinese writers, communicated to our author by the learned M. Hautes Rayes. These contain many valuable particulars concerning the history, manners, government, arts, and sciences of the ancient Chinese, to which M. Goguet has had frequent recourse in his history.





As it would trespass on our plan to dwell minutely upon each of the above particulars, we must refer our readers to the author. Upon the whole, we will venture to say, that this work, with all its imperfections, has likewise its merit. The arrangement, harmony, and disposition of the several parts are nice and judicious. The style is concise, clear, and not inelegant, and if the reflections are not profound and laboured, they are at least pertinent, and naturally rising from the subject. It is in every respect well calculated for such as would be scholars without the trouble of much reading, and think it sufficient—

"To catch the eel of science by the tail."





VII.—WARD ON ORATORY »

"A System of Oratory, delivered in a Course of Lectures, publicly read at Greshatn College. By John Ward, LL.D. F.R.S." In two volumes, 8vo.

IF diction perfectly grammatical, and a method perfectly scientific; if the marks of extensive reading, and an omission of scarce aught that has been formerly advanced on the subject, demand applause, these lectures may assert their claim. Accurate and copious, they contain all that the ancients have delivered on the rhetorician's art, all the rules commentators have coolly deduced from a careful perusal of the raptures of Demosthenes and Cicero. This, perhaps, was all the praise our author sought and this much certainly is his due. We will not accuse the lecturer of phlegm, since he only professes to be didactic; nor censure his many repetitions, since to an audience, perhaps, they conduce to perspicuity. They who seek to understand rhetoric, must be contented with the disgusting dryness of names





'Dr. John Ward, Professor of Rhetoric in Gresham College for thirty-eight years. Born in London 1679, died 1758.





and definitions: these names and proper definitions are supplied here in abundance. If, regardless of the present age, the author has not thought proper to adapt his rules to the differing modes of eloquence of different centuries, he has, nevertheless, been a faithful commentator upon the ancients, whom he appears to have studied, and whose languages he seems perfectly to have understood. We would not therefore be thought to object to the execution of the present performance, but to the choice of the subject; not to the lecturer's talents, but the inutility of his task.

Upon a former occasion we hinted our opinion, that eloquence is more improved by the perusal of the. great masters, from whose excellences rules have been afterwards formed, than by an attendance on the lectures of such as pretend to teach the art by rule, more by imitation than by precept. We shall here, then, take the liberty of pursuing the thought; and as an extract from the work before us can (from the nature of the subject) neither excite the reader's curiosity nor awaken his attention, instead of offering anything from the author we shall fill up a page with a few observations of our own. We all would be orators: we live in an age of orators: our very tradesmen are orators. Were it not worth while to ask what oratory is?

Oratory is nothing more than the being able to imprint on others, with rapidity and force, the sentiments of which we are possessed ourselves. Thus sometimes even silence is eloquent, and action persuades when words might fail. We may be thus impressed, without being convinced; and our passions are often excited on the side of the speaker, though reason would resist their impulse. "Whatever," says Boileau, "we clearly conceive, we can clearly express; whatever we conceive with warmth, is expressed in the same manner:" when the emotion is strong, the words rise almost involuntarily, to give our feelings all the force of expression. The speaker who calmly considers the propriety of his diction cools in the interval; the spirit is fled, and, not being moved himself, he ceases to affect his hearers. Should we examine writers of genius on the most applauded parts of their performances, they would readily answer, that those parts have been most admired which they wrote with the greatest ease and the warmest enthusiasm. Thus we see, eloquence is born with us before the rules of rhetoric, as languages have been formed before the rules of grammar. Nature alone is mistress of the art, and perhaps every person who understands the language in which he speaks, who has great interest in the cause he defends, or is warmly attached to his party, must be an orator. This is the reason that the most barbarous nations speak in a style more affecting and figurative than others; they feel with passions unabated by judgment, and tropes and figures are the natural result of their sensations. These strong and vigorous emotions, therefore, can be





nowhere taught, but they may be extinguished by rule; and this we find actually to have been the case: we find no Grecian orator truly sublime after the precepts of Aristotle, nor Roman after the lectures of Quintilian. Their precepts might have guarded their successors from falling into faults, but at the same time they deterred them from rising into beauty. Cool, dispassionate, and even, they never forfeited their title to good sense; they incurred no disgust, and they raised no admiration.

But if rules in general of this kind are of such inutility, how much more must they lead us astray, when we cite the precepts given to the orators of one country to direct the pleadings of another; rules drawn from the ancients to direct a modern barrister, would make him thoroughly ridiculous; and yet this custom prevailed in Europe till about a century ago. A lawyer, who even then perceived the absurdity of the custom, hearing his adversary talk of the war of Troy, the beauteous Helen, and the river Scamander, entreated the court to observe, that, his client was christened, not Scamander, but Simon.

In fact, those men who have taken so much pains to reduce what is properly a talent to an art, have but very little advanced the interests of learning: by their means, the mind, attentive to her own operations, mixes judgment with all her enthusiasms; and like a man who is ever reflecting on the danger of every hazardous enterprise, at last is satisfied with the advantages of safety, unconcerned about the rewards attending success.1





■ This criticism is followed by a kind notice of Goldsmith's Enquiry.





VIII.—MURPHY'S ORPHAN OF CHINA

"The Orphan of China; a Tragedy. By Arthur Murphy. Esq."

WHEN luxury has exhausted every mode of enjoyment, and is palled by an iteration of the same pursuits, it often has recourse even to absurdity for redress, and vainly expects from novelty those satisfactions it has ceased to find in nature. Like the Asiatic tyrant of antiquity, wearied of the old pleasures, it proposes immense rewards, and eagerly seeks amusement in the new. From the prevalence of a taste like this, or rather from this perversion of taste, the refined European has, of late, had recourse even to China, in order to diversify the amusements of the day. We have seen gardens laid out in the Eastern manner; houses ornamented in front by zigzag lines; and rooms stuck round with Chinese vases and Indian pagods. If such whimsies prevail among those who conduct the pleasures of the times, and consequently lead the fashion, is it to be wondered, if even poetry itself should conform, and the public be presented with a piece formed upon Chinese manners?—manners which

Vol. ix—ii 3aI





though the poet should happen to mistake, he has the consolation left, that few readers are able to detect the imposture. Voltaire, than whom no author better adapts his productions to the colour of the times, was sensible of this prevalence of fashion in favour of all that came from China, and resolved to indulge its extravagance. He has accordingly embroidered a Chinese plot with all the colouring of French poetry; but his advances to excellence are only in proportion to his deviating from the calm insipidity of his Eastern original. Of all nations that ever felt the influence of the inspiring goddess, perhaps the Chinese are to be placed in the lowest class: their productions are the most phlegmatic that can be imagined. In those pieces of poetry, or novel, translations, some of which we have seen, and which probably may soon be made public,1 there is not a single attempt to address the imagination, or influence the passions; such therefore are very improper models for imitation: and Voltaire, who was perhaps sensible of this, has made very considerable deviations from the original plan.2 Our English poet has deviated still further, and, in proportion as the plot has become more European, it has become more perfect. By omitting many of the circumstances of the original story, and adding several of his own, Mr. Murphy has given us a play, if not truly Chinese, at least entirely poetical. Perhaps it was the intention of this ingenious writer, to show the strength of his imagination in embellishing a barren plot, and, like the artist we have sometimes heard of, who was famous for dressing a pair of shoes into a fricassee, chose rather to have us admire his manner than his materials. The first error in the plot of this piece is, that the pathos begins without a proper preparation of incident. The most poignant anguish begins in the second act, where Mandane, the only woman of the play, feels all the distress of passion, conflicting between a subject's duty and a mother's tenderness. When the poet thus attempts to move us before his time, the most he can do is to raise an equally moderate degree of pity through the whole, which all his art cannot raise into that fine agony of distress, so common among the great masters of his art. All enthusiasms are of short continuance; nor is it the power of genius to keep our sorrows alive through five acts, unless it diversifies the object, or in every act excites some new and unforeseen distress; but neither of these the Chinese plot in view admits of.



1 A specimen of this kind will probably appear next season at Mr. Dodsley's, as we are informed.—Goldsmith. In 1761, Dr. Percy published a translation of Han Kiou Choaan, or the Pleasing History, a Chinese novel, containing a faithful picture of the domestic manners, habits, and characters of that extraordinary people.

1 "The first specimen of a Chinese play was translated into French by the Jesuit Premaire. Voltaire made his translation of the Orphan of Chaou the groundwork of one of his best tragedies, L'Orphelin de la Chine: it is founded on an event which occurred about a hundred years before the birth of Confucius. A military leader, having usurped the lands of the house of Chaou, is determined on exterminating the whole race. A faithful dependant of the family saves the life of the orphan and male heir, by concealing him, and passing off his own child in his stead. The orphan is brought up in ignorance of his real condition, until he reaches man's estate, when the whole subject being revealed to him by his tutor and guardian, he revenges the fate of his family on the usurper, and recovers his rights. In this plot, Dr. Hurd remarked a near resemblance, in many points, to the Electro of Sophocles, where the young Orestes is reared by his pedagogus or tutor, until he is old enough to enact summary justice on the murderers of his father Agamemnon."—Davis, Chinese, vol. ii., p. 191.





Shakespeare, Otway, and Rowe, seemed to have been perfect economists of their distress (if we may use the expression); they were so sensible of a necessary gradation in this respect, that their characters frequently make their first appearance in circumstances of joy and triumph. They well knew that we are apt to pity the sufferings of mankind, in proportion as they have fallen from former happiness. Othello, therefore, meets the mistress he must soon kill, in all the ecstasy of a happy lover. Acasto surveys the felicity of his family with the most unreserved degree of rapture; and the father of the Fair Pentitent, who so soon is to be wretched indeed, begins in a strain of exultation, that forces us almost to envy his felicity.

We have been led into these reflections, from observing the effect the ingenious performance before us had upon the audience the first night of its representation. The whole house seemed pleased, highly and justly pleased; but it was not with the luxury of woe1 they seemed affected: the nervous sentiment, the glowing imagery, the wellconducted scenery, seemed the sources of their pleasure; their judgment could not avoid approving the conduct of the drama, yet few of the situations were capable of getting within the soul, or exciting a single tear; in short, it was quickly seen, that all the faults of the performance proceeded from vicious imitation, and all its beauties were the poet's own.



'Goldsmith was fond of this expression and of the word woe, on which he has six rhymes in his short poem of The Deserted Village.





And now we are mentioning faults (faults which a single quotation from the play will happily expunge from the reader's memory), the author has, perhaps, too frequently mentioned the word virtue. This expression should, in the mouth of a philosopher, be husbanded, and only used on great occasions; if repeated too often, it loses its cabalistic power, and at last degenerates into contempt. This was actually the case at Athens, so that their no\vdpv\Xer?j aperrf, as it was called, became contemptible even among the most stupid of their neighbouring nations; and towards the latter end of their government they grew ashamed of it themselves. But, to do the writer ample justice, we will lay one scene against all his defects, and we are convinced that this alone will turn the balance in his favour. Works of genius are not to be judged from the faults to be met with in them, but by the beauties in which they abound.

Zamti, the Chinese high-priest, is informed, that his own son is going to be offered up as the orphanheir of China; after a short conflict, his duty gains a complete victory over paternal affection: he is willing his son should die, in order to secure his king; but the difficulty remains to persuade his wife, Mandane, to forego a mother's fondness, and conspire also in the deceit.





Scene.—Mandane, Zamti.'

Mandane. And can it then be true?

Is human nature exil'd from thy breast?

Art thou, indeed, so barbarous?—



Zamti. Lov'd Mandane,

Fix not your scorpions here—a bearded shaft

Already drinks my spirits up.



Mandane. I 've seen

The trusty Morat—I have heard it all.

He would have shunn'd my steps; but what can 'scape

The eye of tenderness like mine?



Zamti. By heav'n!

I cannot speak to thee.



Mandane. Think'st thou those tears,

Those false, those cruel tears, will choke the voice

Of a fond mother's love, now stung to madness?

Oh! I will rend the air with lamentations;

Root up this hair, and beat this throbbing breast;

Turn all connubial joys to bitterness,

To fell despair, to anguish, and remorse,

Unless my son



Zamti. Thou ever faithful woman,

Oh! leave me to my woes.



Mandane. Give me my child,

Thou worse than Tartar, give me back my son;

Oh! give him to a mother's eager arms,



1 Garrick played Zamti; Mandane was played by Mrs. Yates.





And let me strain him to my heart.

Zamti. Heaven knows

How dear my boy is here. But our first duty

Now claims attention—to our country's love,

All other fondnesses must yield:

I was a subject ere I was a father.



Mandane. You were a savage, bred in Scythian wilds,

And humanising pity never reach'd

Your heart. Was it for this—oh! thou unkind one,

Was it for this—oh, thou inhuman father,

You woo'd me to your nuptial bed? So long

Have I then clasp'd thee in these circling arms,

And made this breast your pillow? Cruel, say,

Are these your vows? Are these your fond endearments?

Nay, look upon me. If this wasted form,

These faded eyes, have turn'd your heart against me,

With grief for you I wither'd in my bloom.



Zamti. Why wilt thou pierce my heart?

Mandane. Alas! my son,

Have I then bore thee in these matron arms,

To see thee bleed? Thus dost thou then return?

This could your mother hope, when first she sent

Her infant exile to a distant clime?

Ah! could I think thy early love of fame

Would urge thee to this peril? Thus to fall

By a stern father's will. By thee to die!

From thee, inhuman, to receive his doom!

Murder'd by thee! Yet hear me, Zamti, hear me—

Thus on my knees—I threaten now no more—

'T is Nature's voice that pleads; Nature alarm'd,

Quick, trembling, wild, touch'd to her inmost feeling,

When force would tear her tender young ones from her.



Zamti. Nay, seek not with enfeebling fond ideas

To swell the flood of grief—it is in vain—

He must submit to fate.



Mandane. Barbarian! no—(She rises hastily.)





He shall not die—rather—I prithee, Zamti,

Urge not a grief-distracted woman: Tremble

At the wild fury of a woman's love.



Zamti. I tremble rather at a breach of oaths.

But thou break thine. Bathe your perfidious hands

In this life-blood. Betray the righteous cause

Of all our sacred kings.



Mandane. Our kings!—our kings!

What are the scepter'd rulers of the world?—

Form'd of one common clay, are they not all

Doom'd with each subject, with the meanest slave,

To drink the cup of human woe?—alike

All levell'd by affliction? Sacred kings!

'T is human policy sets up their claim.

Mine is a mother's cause—mine is the cause

Of husband, wife, and child;—those tenderest ties!

Superior to your right divine of kings!



Zamti. Then go, Mandane, thou once faithful woman,

Dear to this heart in vain;—go, and forget

Those virtuous lessons which I oft have taught thee,

In fond credulity, while on each word

You hung enamour'd. Go to Timurkan,

Reveal the awful truth. Be thou spectatress

Of murder'd majesty. Embrace your son,

And let him lead in shame and servitude,

A life ignobly bought. Then let those eyes,

Those faded eyes, which grief for me hath dimm'd,

"With guilty joy reanimate their lustre,

To brighten slavery, and beam their fires

On the fell Scythian murderer.



Mandane. And is it thus,

Thus is Mandane known? My soul disdains

The vile imputed guilt. No—never—never—

Still am I true to fame. Come, lead me hence,

Where I may lay down life to save Zaphimri;

But save my Hamet too. Then, then, you 'll find





A heart beats here, as warm and great as thine.

Zamti. Then make with me one strong, one glorious effort, And rank with those who, from the first of time, In fame's eternal archives stand rever'd, For conquering all the dearest ties of nature, To serve the general weal.

Mandane. That savage virtue Loses with me its horrid charms. I 've sworn To save my king. But should a mother turn A dire assassin—oh! I cannot bear The piercing thought. Distraction—quick distraction Will seize my brain.—See there—my child—my child— By guards surrounded, a devoted victim,— Barbarians, hold! Ah! see, he dies!—he dies!

[She faints into Zamti's arms.

Zamti. Where is Arsace? Fond maternal love

Shakes her weak frame—{Enter Arsace). Quickly,



Arsace, help

This ever tender creature. Wand'ring life

Rekindles in her cheek. Soft, lead her off

To where the fanning breeze in yonder bow'r

May woo her spirits back. Propitious heav'n!

Pity the woundings of a father's heart;

Pity my strugglings with this best of women;

Support our virtue:—kindle in our souls

A ray of your divine enthusiasm;

Such as inflames the patriot's breast, and lifts

Th' imprison'd mind to that sublime of virtue,

That even on the rack it feels the good,

Which in a single hour it works to millions,

And leaves the legacy to after-times.



[Exit, leading off Mandane.

Even in so short a specimen the reader sees a strength of thought, a propriety of diction, and a perfect acquaintance with the stage. The whole is thus in action, filled with incident, and embellished with a justness of sentiment, not to be found even in M. Voltaire. The French poet, for instance, seems to speak without detestation of self-murder, and instances the neighbouring Japanese,1 who find in it a refuge from all their sorrows: our poet more justly brands it as an usurpation of





ZanUi. The dread prerogative

Of life and death, and measure out the thread

Of our own beings! 'T is the coward's act,

Who dares not to encounter pain and peril—

Be that the practice of the gloomy North.



Mandane. Must we then wait a haughty tyrant's rod,

The vassals of his will?—no—let us rather

Nobly break through the barriers of this life,

And join the beings of some other world,

Who 'll throng around our greatly daring souls,

And view the deed with wonder and applause.



Zatnti. Distress too exquisite!—Ye holy pow'rs,

If aught below can supersede your law,

And plead for wretches, who dare, self-impell'd,

Rush to your awful presence;—oh! it is not

When the distemper'd passions rage; when pride

Is stung to madness; when ambition falls



1 "L'homme 6tait-il donc ne- pour tant de dependance,

De nos voisins altiers imitons la Constance;

De la nature humaine ils soutiennent les droits,

Vivent libres chez eux, et meurent a leur choix.

Un affront leur suffit pour sortir de la vie,

Et plus que le neant ils craignent l'infamie,

Le hardi Japonais n'attend pas qu'au cercueil,

Un despote insolent le plonge d'un coup-d'oeil."



L'Orphelin de la Chine, acte v. sc. 5.





From his high scaffolding;—oh!—no—if aught

Can justify the blow, it is when virtue

Has nothing left to do;—when liberty

No more can breathe at large;—'t is with the groans

Of our dear country when we dare to die.

Mandane. Then here at once direct the friendly steel.

Zamti. One last adieu!—now!—ah! does this become Thy husband's love! thus with uplifted blade Can I approach that bosom-bliss, where oft With other looks than those—oh! my Mandane— I 've hush'd my cares within thy shelt'ring arms?

Mandane. Alas! the loves that hover'd o'er our pillows

Have spread their pinions, never to return,

And the pale fates surround us—

Then lay me down in honourable rest;

Come, as thou art, all hero, to my arms,

And free a virtuous wife.



Zamti. It must be so—

Now then, prepare thee—my arm flags and droops,

Conscious of thee in ev'ry trembling nerve.



[Dashes down the dagger.

This is finely conceived, and exquisitely executed. Subjoined to the play we find a letter, addressed, from the author to Voltaire, which we think might have been better suppressed; for though it is written with fire and spirit, and contains many judicious observations, it may subject Mr. Murphy to the censure of having made but an indifferent return to a man, whose sentiments and plan he has, in a great measure, thought proper to adopt. It may be indeed considered as a just retribution on a Frenchman, who had served Shakespeare in the same manner; that is, adopted all his beauties, and then reviled him for his faults. Voltaire is entitled to particular regard from our countrymen, notwithstanding the petulance with which he has treated them on some occasions; for he was certainly the first who opened the eyes of Europe to the excellences of English poetry.





IX.—DR. YOUNG ON ORIGINAL COMPOSITION

"Conjectures on Original Composition; in a letter to the Author of Sir Charles Grandison." 8vo.

ONE of the oldest and bravest champions in the cause of literature, has here resumed the gauntlet; and Dr. Young, the only survivor of our age of writers, instead of growing languid with age, seems to gather strength by time, and kindles as he runs. Some imagery, frequent metaphor, and a glowing imagination, are generally the prerogatives of a youthful author; however, the writer in view seems to invert the order of nature, and as he grows old, his fancy seems to grow more luxuriant. To say the truth, his metaphors are too thick sown; he frequently drives them too far, and often does not preserve their simplicity to the end; thus, when he speaks of men "up to the knees in antiquity saluting the Pope's toe," he mixes images that are in themselves inconsistent; but wherever he falls short of perfection, his faults are the errors of genius; his manner peculiarly his own; and while his book serves, by precept, to direct us to original composition, it serves to impel us by example.





He begins by apologising for his having, at his time of life, resumed the pen. There was no need of an excuse from one whose genius still subsists in its energy, and whose very defects will have admirers. He proceeds to observe that there are two kinds of imitations, one of nature, the other of authors. The first we call originals, and confine the term imitation to the second; an imitator of the last class he justly ranks infinitely beneath the former. An imitator shares his crown with the chosen object of his imitation; but the original seizes reputation. Fame, fond of new glories, sounds her trumpet in triumph at his birth; but so few books have we dictated by original genius, that if all others were to be burnt, the lettered world would resemble some metropolis in flames, where a few incombustible buildings, a fortress, temple, or tower, lift their heads in melancholy grandeur, amid the mighty ruin. But why, continues he, are originals so few? Not because the writer's harvest is over, the great reapers of antiquity having left nothing to be gleaned after them, but because illustrious examples engross, prejudice, and intimidate. They engross our attention, and so prevent a due inspection of ourselves; they prejudice our judgment in favour of their abilities, and so lessen the sense of our own; they intimidate us with the splendour of their renown: and thus, under diffidence, bury our strength.

He next asserts, that the truest way of writing like the ancients is to draw from nature. Let us build our compositions with the spirit, and in the taste of the ancients, but not with their materials. It is by a sort of noble contagion, from a general familiarity with the writings of the ancients, and not by any particular sordid theft, that we can be the better for those who went before us. Genius is a master workman, learning but an instrument: and an instrument, though most valuable, not always indispensable.





Of genius there are two species, an earlier and a later; or call them infantine and adult. An adult genius comes out of nature's hand, as Pallas out of Jove's head, at full growth and mature. Shakespeare's genius was of this kind; on the contrary, Swift had an infantine genius, which, like other infants, must be nursed and educated, or it will come to nought. Men are often strangers to their own abilities: genius, in this view, is like a dear friend in our company under disguise, who, while we are lamenting his absence, drops his mask, striking us at once with equal surprise and joy. Few authors of distinction but have experienced something of this nature at the first beamings of their unsuspected genius, on the hitherto dark composition. Let not then great examples, or authorities, browbeat our reason into too great a diffidence of ourselves. Let us reverence ourselves, so as to prefer the native growth of our own minds to the richest imports from abroad, since such borrowed riches serve only to increase our poverty. Admiration of others depresses the admirer, in proportion as it lifts the object of our applause.





He proceeds, by complaining that Pope, who had a genius truly original, if he chose to exert it, was contented with being an humble imitator, and even boasted of his skill at imitation. Swift, on the contrary, not sufficiently acquainted with himself, left truth, in order to be original only in the wrong; and has so satirised human nature, as to give a demonstration in himself, that it deserves to be satirised. The author then proceeds to characterise Shakespeare and Ben Jonson; by the bye, paying his friend, the author of Sir Charles Grandison, some very pretty compliments. Dryden, he justly observes, was by no means a master of the pathos in tragedy. "He had a great, but a general capacity; as for a general genius, there is no such thing in nature. A genius implies the rays of the mind, concentred and determined to some particular point; when they are scattered widely they act feebly, and strike not with sufficient force to fire or dissolve the heart. As what comes from the writer's heart reaches ours, so what comes from his head, sets our brains at work and our hearts at ease."

He then makes a transition to Mr. Addison, whose tragedy of Cato is observed to be a fine, but not an affecting performance. But though this poet deserve a superiority over contemporary claims, even by his writings, he infinitely surpassed his rivals for fame in the integrity of his life, and in a glorious circumstance attending his death. Perceiving his last moments to approach, and no help from his physicians, he sent for a youth nearly related to him, finely accomplished, and who felt the utmost distress at separation. The young man came, "but life, now glimmering in the socket, the dying friend was silent: after a decent and proper pause, the youth said, 'Dear Sir! you sent for me: I believe, and I hope, that you have some commands; I shall hold them most sacred.' May distant ages not only hear, but feel the reply! Forcibly grasping the youth's hand, he softly said, 'See in what peace a Christian can die.' " l





As Dr. Young's manner of writing is peculiarly his own, and has already secured him an ample share of fame, we hope to see some succeeding man of genius do justice to the integrity of his life, and the simplicity and piety of his manners; for in this respect, not Addison himself was, perhaps, his superior. We would, in a word, be much better pleased to see the writers of the rising generation more fond of imitating his life than his writings; his moral qualities are transferable; his peculiarities, as a genius, can scarcely be imitated, except in their faults.



1 "Tickell, in his excellent elegy on the death of Addison, alluded, in the following lines, as he told Dr. Young, to this moving interview with Lord Warwick:

"He taught us how to live; and (ohI too high

The price for knowledge) taught us how to die.'"



Johnson's Life of Addison.

VOL. IX 13





X.—FORMEY'S PHILOSOPHICAL

MISCELLANIES



"Philosophical Miscellanies on Various Subjects. To which is prefixed an Account of the Author and his Works, by Himself. From the Original of M. Formey,' Perpetual Secretary to the Royal Academy at Berlin." iamo.

THIS volume of miscellanies is prefaced with the author's own account of himself. What he found in his life worthy of thus being made public, it is not easy to determine, since all its transactions are composed of his being bred a divine, his being made professor of eloquence in an university, secretary to a literary society, and having wrote a great many books. There is not, perhaps, in nature a being more fond of flattery than the professor in a college. Accustomed to adulation from their pupils, they expect it from the world; and when fame does not happen to blow the trumpet sufficiently in their praise, have been frequently found to strengthen the blast themselves. Though their whole lives may have passed away between the fireside and the easy chair, yet how have we seen the press sweat with the uninteresting anecdotes of men who did nothing! But let them pass. They write for minds congenial to their own.



1 "M. Formey, originally of a French family, was born at Berlin, in 1711, and died in 1797. Besides the above work, his Ecclesiastical History, and his History of Philosophy and Philosophers, were translated into English; the latter by Goldsmith himself, in 1763, See, Life, ch. xiii.





This may serve as a sufficient intimation that Mr. Formey's taste does not entirely correspond with ours. It must be owned, his vanity has given some unfavourable impressions, and his eloquence has wiped none of these impressions away. 'T is true, that by arrainging his gravity or his learning, we incur some danger from the resentment of our brother journalists, and that class of men who are prudently for ever in the right. A theologist, a German, a professor, a journalist, a secretary to an academy, who perhaps, could class eight or ten letters to the end of his name; to arraign the talents of such a man; to say that with all his eloquence he is at best metaphorically dull, will perhaps be considered as heresy in the commonwealth of letters!

Yet let not his faults be confounded with those of his translator; for these are frequently almost too gross for conception. This gentleman talks of "awakening to a vigilancy," in the first paragraph; tells us of the "coction of the ventricles," by which we suppose is meant, in the original, the digestive faculty of the stomach: he translates the exit of the nerves from the medulla spinalis, by the "roots of the marrow." Whenever an English word does not come to his hand, he without further ceremony makes one of his own, such as somnolence, humectating, acrity, acridity, inflammative, machinal, and so forth; all which are delivered with great ease, and much appearance of learning. In short, our German frequently is made to talk unintelligibly, and is thus robbed of one half his reputation; and at best, heaven knows, he has not much to spare! It reminds us of a man, who, selling his horse, assured the buyer that he had but two faults; one was, that he was very hard to be caught, and the other fault—ay, what was that?—he was good for nothing when he had caught him.





The first treatise is entitled, An Essay on Sleep. He raises a controversy whether sleep, which gives rest to our voluntary actions and motions, does not augment the vital and involuntary? This dispute he is at great pains to determine; and Seneca and Boerhaave on one side, are marshalled against Gorter, Keil, and Dodart on the other. An acquaintance with modern discoveries in physiology would have prevented his doubts, and taught him to reconcile Keil with Boerhaave. The quantity of matter which goes off by perspiration, though it be sometimes greater, is frequently less than that which is absorbed from the circumambient atmosphere. Thus a man, who, after the fatigue and exercise of the day, weighs himself upon going to bed, will be found some pounds heavier the next morning. While we are awake and in action, we perspire more than we inhale. In that state, therefore, the blood is deprived of a greater quantity of its fluid than in a state of sleep; the more the blood is deprived of this fluid, the more its stimulus increases. By this means the pulse becomes quicker, and all the vital motions are accelerated. To replenish this waste of fluid, sleep therefore is requisite, which gives the blood a proper degree of fluidity, and regulates the machine.





He next proceeds to consider what it is that sleeps in us. And to this he peremptorily answers, that the cerebrum, which he regards as the source of all our voluntary motions, is at rest; while the cerebellum, by him supposed to be the source of vital motion, continues alive and active. His theory has been so often refuted already, that we must accuse either his candour or learning, in not perceiving the proper objections. Animals deprived of the cerebrum have been seen to perform many of the voluntary motions; a proof that it cannot be the source of such. But to dismiss this essay, let it be sufficient to observe, that whenever the author attempts physiological explanations, he discovers no great share of knowledge or erudition.

His next essay is upon dreams, where his merit as a metaphysician is somewhat superior to his skill in physiology. In quality of the latter, however, he begins this dissertation with a confused account of the manner in which bodies operate upon the nerves; one time considering them as having a nervous fluid, and another, as being elastic springs, that vibrate to every external impression. However, it is sufficient for his purpose that they serve as conveyances from external objects to the thinking power. The nerves, at their origination from the brain, are supposed to be of much more vivid perception than they are at their extremities, which lie at such a distance from the common sensory. "Hence," continues he, "it is that arise all the acts of imagination during vigilancy; and nothing is more known, than that in persons of a certain habit of body, or who are given up to intense meditation, or agitated by violent passions, these acts of imagination are equivalent to sensation, and even hinder its effects; though otherwise the impression in itself be very far from faint. Those are the dreams of waking men, and there is a perfect analogy betwixt them and the dreams in sleep; both the one and the other depending on that series of inward concussions at the extremity of the nerves, which terminates in the brain; the whole difference is, that whilst awake, we can check this series, break the concatenation, alter the direction, and supersede it, by calling in real sensation; whereas dreams are independent of our will, and it is without the verge of our power either to continue an agreeable illusion, or disperse an hideous phantom. The imagination in a waking person is a policed republic, where the voice of the magistrate appeases confusion and restores order; the imagination in dreams is the same republic in a state of anarchy; and still the passions make frequent attempts against the legislator's authority, even whilst his prerogative is in its full force, and he is in a capacity of asserting his rights."





Our author is of opinion, that there is no period of sleep in which we do not dream, but the images are so confused and faint, as to leave not the least trace upon the memory. So that, properly speaking, the dream is no more than to have a recollection of our dreams. This is a controversy that has employed many to very little purpose. For if, with Mr, Locke, there be a time when the soul is quite insensible, it can never remember such a time, that interval of insensibility being considered as nothing in its period of existence, and consequently will not admit of reasoning about it.

The succeeding essays turn upon the value and neglect of the laws of conversation on the scale of beings; by which he means, that infinite gradation of beings, from the summit of perfection down to inanimate matter. On the order of nature. On the analogy between the nourishment of the soul and that of the body. On the principles of happiness and unhappiness in marriage. On moral liberty. On lending money at interest. The obligation of procuring ourselves the conveniences of life considered as a moral duty. The nugis addere pondus is very manifest in this author's manner. Every subject is treated very scientifically, with a great show of argument, which proves nothing; he seems ever upon the wing, yet does not stir an inch. He very conscientiously and methodically divides this subject, surveys it round and round, and then leaves it without stripping off a single obscurity. Need it be added then, upon the whole, that it is one of those performances which generally serve to gain an author the praise of his acquaintance, and yet create no envy in contemporary writers? The ill-natured must own there is no harm in it, and they who are more generous may, perhaps, allow that it reads well enough.





XI.—VAN EGMONT'S TRAVELS INTO ASIA

'' Travels through part of Europe, Asia Minor, the Islands of the Archipelago, Syria, Palestine, Egypt, Mount Sinai, etc. By the Hon. ourable J. ^egidius Van Egmont, Envoy Extraordinary from the United Provinces to the Court of Naples; and John HeyMan, Professor of the Oriental Languages in the University of Leyden. Translated from the Low Dutch." a vols. 8vo.

TRAVELS acquire one great part of their merit from being new. Every country seems like the pictures in a camera-obscura, continually altering their tints, though the outlines be still the same. A single age introduces new customs and manners, as well as inhabitants. Those who compare the accounts of the travellers of the fourteenth century with those of the moderns, will perceive that even Asia has altered its modes, the inhabitants of many places having almost changed their nature. From every new publication of travels, therefore, the reader has a right to expect recent information, that it at least excels all other accounts by giving, if not more authentic, at least more modern descriptions. In this respect, however, the purchaser of the book in question will find himself mistaken. These travels have been performed more than an age ago; and we have had several men of better abilities, who have visited and described those countries mentioned in the title-page, later than they. To what purpose, then, a new publication, which contains accounts neither so accurate or so modern as those which have preceded it? Really we know not, unless vainly to add to the number of such descriptions, already too voluminous.





One who sits down to read the accounts of modern travellers into Asia, will be apt to fancy that they all travelled in the same track. Their curiosity seems repressed either by fear or indolence, and all are contented if they venture as far as others went before them. Thus, the same cities, towns, ruins, and rivers, are again described, to a disgusting repetition. Thus, a man shall go an hundred miles to admire a mountain, only because it was spoken of in Scripture; yet what information can be received from hearing that .•Egidius Van Egmont went up such a hill, only in order to come down again? Could we see a man set out upon this journey, not with an intent to consider rocks and rivers, but the manners and the mechanic inventions, and the imperfect learning of the inhabitants, resolved to penetrate into countries as yet little known, and eager to pry into all their secrets, with an heart not terrified at trifling dangers;—if there could be found a man who could unite thus true courage with sound learning, from such a character we might hope much information. Even though all he should bring home was only the manner of dyeing red in the Turkish manner, his labours would be more beneficial to society, than if he had collected all the mutilated inscriptions and idle shells on the coasts of the Levant.1





With respect to the gentlemen in view, we have no reason to doubt of their veracity; however, that circumstance alone will not compensate for dry accounts, and observations frequently true, but seldom striking. In copying the Greek inscriptions, they seem frequently to have mistaken the letters, unless this defect is to be attributed to an error of the press.

As the religion of the Druses in several parts of the East is not so generally known, we shall give as an extract, one part of the book, entitled, "The First Part of the Mysteries of the Proper Worship of our Maoula."

"All ye," etc. . . . [Here follows a long extract of six pages.]



1 The admirable sense of this brief criticism is the best answer to Johnson's objection to Goldsmith's wish to travel in the East: "Of all men Goldsmith is the most unfit to go out upon such an enquiry [a knowledge of the arts of the East]; for he is utterly ignorant of such arts as we already possess, and consequently could not know what would be accessions to our present stock of mechanical knowledge. Sir, he would bring home a grinding barrow, which you see in every street in London, and think that he had furnished a wonderful improvement." That he would have written a delightful work, the result of his own accurate observation, there can be no doubt whatever.





XII.—MONTESQUIEU'S MISCELLANEOUS

PIECES



"Miscellaneous Pieces of M. de Secondat, Baron de Montesquieu."

8vo.

SUCH of our readers as are not in possession of the last splendid French edition of the celebrated Montesquieu, will find this volume a valuable supplement to his other works, as the translation is executed with spirit, though seemingly inaccurate. There is a pleasure arising from the perusal of the very bagatelles of men renowned for their knowledge and genius; and we receive with veneration those pieces after they are dead, which would lessen them in our esteem while living. Sensible that we shall enjoy them no more, we treasure up, as precious relics, every saying and word that has escaped them; but their writings of every kind we deem inestimable. With what eagerness would all the literati of Europe pore over a half-defaced fragment of, Plato, Cicero, Homer, or Virgil! Even a trifling poem of Swift or Pope will make a whole edition of their works sell with rapidity, and we now would purchase a warranted original copy of the worst verses Milton ever wrote, at ten times the price which the original copy of the Paradise Lost brought him.





We love to pursue genius from its serious occupations to its lighter and more airy amusements, and to peruse their unformed sentiments, as well as their finished pieces. Seeing their thoughts rise without order, connection, or art, and destitute of the embellishments of style, and ornaments of learning, is examining them more closely, entering more intimately into their acquaintances, and more strongly marking their original powers. In the one, they address us with the formal and distant air of the superior; in the other, with the ease and familiarity of the friend, where every thing is uttered as it occurs. Studying the outlines of any work of genius, is like watching the progress of infancy to maturity; we trace it growing under the hands of the artist; we imagine ourselves present at every addition and improvement, and congratulate ourselves as if we had been assisting to its final perfection. Where it is broken off unfinished, we lament it as a promising child cut off in the bloom of youth, to the disappointment of all our hopes and wishes.

Cicero observes, that we behold with transport and enthusiasm the little barren spot, or ruins of a house, in which a person celebrated for his wisdom, his valour, or his learning, lived. When he coasted along the shore of Greece, all the heroes, statesmen, orators, philosophers, and poets of those famed republics, rose in his memory, and were present to his sight: how much more would he have been delighted with any of their posthumous works, however inferior to what he had before seen! In just this manner did we receive pleasure from the volume before us. The detached pieces with which we are here presented fall greatly short of the merit of all his other performances; yet still they have the spirit of Montesquieu. His defence of the Spirit of Laws is close, cool, and judicious; sometimes rising to wit, often shrewdly sarcastic; but generally dry, barren, and of such a kind as indicates that the talents of this great man did not lie in controversy. This, perhaps, may be the reason why his elegant panegyrist, D'Alembert, has so slightly touched upon this piece. As to the Temple of Gnidus, we must beg leave to dissent in opinion from that polite encomiast, who, we think, has extolled it greatly beyond its merit, and probably from that sympathetic veneration which men of genius ever feel for each other. In our mind, it proves little more than that Montesquieu, to his other great talents, annexed those of fancy and invention. Of the Essay on Taste we have spoken in our last number, etc.





XIII.—THYER'S GENUINE REMAINS OP

SAMUEL BUTLER



"The Genuine Remains, in Prose and Verse, of Mr. Samuel Butler.

Published from the Original Manuscripts, formerly in the

possession of W. Longueville, Esq.; with Notes by R. Thybr,

Keeper of the Public Library at Manchester." In two vols. 8vo.



WHEN we consider Butler merely as a poet, and a party poet too, and reflect that poets, in our own time, have been known to excel in one species of composition, and yet have been useless in all other purposes of life, and ignorant in all other pursuits of learning, we bewail, but we are not greatly surprised at, the indigence in which we are told he lived and died. But when we view him by the light in which this publication places him, we are struck with somewhat next to horror at the want of discernment, at the more than barbarous ingratitude, of his contemporaries. When we see him j oin the humour of Lucian to the philosophy of Plato, and unite the virtue of Socrates with the wit of Aristophanes; when he displays an equal knowledge of men and books; when he adapts reading to reasoning, and all in the cause of liberty and religion, we are apt to bewail, not only the disgrace, but the loss, of our country, that could suffer such a person to be, in a manner, dead to society.





Till the pieces before us were published, Swift could, with some appearance of justice, have disputed with Butler the palm of wit, humour, and observation of life. But we are of opinion, that the question must be now, by the discerning and impartial part of the public, decided in Butler's favour. We cannot, however, say of all the pieces of this collection, as Ovid does of the chariot of the sun, "Materiam superat opus;" for here many of the materials are rich, but the workmanship is rough; they look like pieces of the most precious metal, when they first come out of a beautiful mould; but without the finishing and heightenings, that the hand and the tools of the artist can bestow. Many of them bear manifest indications of genius labouring, but not crushed, under indigence; while some of them have received all the polish that art and judgment can bestow.

The editor has performed his duty with great pertinency, yet modesty of observation; and this publication is far from being one of those catchpenny subscription-works, which, circulating from one good-natured friend to another, at last picks the pocket of the public. We are tempted to wish, however, that Mr. Thyer's studies had led him a little more than they seem to have done, into those piddling walks of pamphlet and polemical reading, from which alone can be drawn the illustrations of many dark passages of his admirable author; nor can we think he has been always happy in his conjecture.





Through great part of the two volumes before us, we perceive that Butler was no friend to the Royal Society,1 and the method of philosophising in fashion in his time; and, indeed, as Mr. Thyer observes with great truth, one must own, that the members of that learned body, at their first setting out, did justly lay themselves open to the lashes of wit and satire.

The first poem in this collection is entitled The Elephant in the Moon, and is planned upon a humorous story of a mouse getting into a telescope, with which the virtuosos were viewing the moon, and which they instantly pronounced to be an elephant in the moon. The story, which is full of Butler's humour, is told at first in short, and then in long, verse, but generally in the same terms and terminations of rhyme.

The poem which follows is entitled, A Satire upon the Weakness and Misery of Man, and bears the stamp not only of genius but virtue; with such characteristics of the latter as are impossible to be counterfeited: as for the former, they speak for themselves. In short, this is perhaps the finest and justest satire that any language can produce; and the whole of it has those marks of virtuous indignation, which prove that the poet speaks from the heart. This indignation is levelled equally against the court of Charles the Second as against the fanatics; and the reader is grossly mistaken if he imagines, that because Butler was the author of Hudibras, he favoured either the politics or the manners of the court, to which his writings were so serviceable in its distress. The satire in question, in enumerating the outward circumstances that create the weakness and misery of man, has the following lines:



'"The enemies of the Royal Society were for some time very numerous and very acrimonious; for what reason it is hard to conceive, since the philosophers professed not to advance doctrines, but to produce facts; and the most zealous enemy of innovation must admit the gradual progress of experience, however he may oppose hypothetical temerity."—Johnson's Life of Butler.





"Yet as no barbarousness beside

Is half so barbarous as pride,

Nor any prouder insolence

Than that, which has the least pretence,

We are so wretched, to profess

A glory in our wretchedness;

To vapour sillily, and rant

Of our own misery and want.

And grown vain-glorious on a score,

We ought much rather to deplore,

Who, the first moment of our lives,

Are but condemn'd, and giv'n reprieves;

And our greatest grace is, not to know

When we shall pay 'em back, nor how;

Begotten with a vain caprich

And live as vainly to that pitch.



"Our pains are real things, and all

Our pleasures but fantastical;





Diseases of their own accord,

But cures come difficult and hard;

Out noblest piles, and stateliest rooms

Are but out-houses to the tombs;

Cities, though ere so great and brave,

But mere warehouses to the grave;

Our brav'ry's * but a vain disguise,

To hide us from the world's dull eyes,

The remedy of a defect,

With which our nakedness is deckt;

Yet makes us swell with pride, and boast,

As if w' had gain'd by being lost."



After some other very fine reflections of the same caste, he concludes in the following noble and spirited strain:—



"That wealth, that bounteous fortune sends,

As presents to her dearest friends,

Is oft laid out upon a purchase

Of two yards long in parish churches;

And those too happy men that bought it,

Had liv'd, and happier too, without it,

For what does vast wealth bring but cheat,

Law, luxury, disease, and debt,

Pain, pleasure, discontent, and sport,

And easy-troubled life, and short? •



1 Finery.—Goldsmith from Thter.

• Though this satire seems fairly transcribed for the press, yet on a vacancy in the sheet opposite to this line, I find the following verses, which probably were intended to be added: but as they are not regularly inserted, I choose rather to give them by way of note:

"For men ne'er digg'd so deep into

The bowels of the earth below,

For metals that are found to dwell

Near neighbour to the pit of hell,





"But all these plagues are nothing near

Those far more cruel and severe.

Unhappy man takes pains to find

T' inflict himself upon his mind;

And out of his own bowels spins

A rack and torture for his sins:

Torments himself, in vain, to know

That most, which he can never do;

And the more strictly 't is denied,

The more he is unsatisfied:

Is busy in finding scruples out.

To languish in eternal doubt;

Sees spectres in the dark, and ghosts.

And starts, as horses do at posts.

And, when his eyes assist him least.

Discerns such subtle objects best:

On hypothetic dreams and visions

Grounds everlasting disquisitions.

And raises endless controversies

On vulgar theorems and hearsays:

Grows positive and confident

In things so far beyond th' extent

Of human sense, he does not know,

Whether they be at all, or no;

And doubts as much in things, that are





And have a magic pow'r to sway

The greedy sends of men that way;

But with their bodies have been fain

To fill those trenches up again;

When bloody battles have been fought

For sharing that, which they took not

For wealth is all things that conduce

To man's destruction, or his use;

A standard both to buy and sell

All things from heaven down to hell."



Goldsmith from Thtbr. As plainly evident, and clear:





Disdains all useful sense, and plain,

T' apply to th' intricate and vain;

And cracks his brains in plodding on

That, which is never to be known;

To pose himself with subtleties,

And hold no other knowledge wise:

Although, the subtler all things are,

They're but to nothing the more near:

And the less weight they can sustain,

The more he still lays on in vain,

And hangs his soul upon as nice

And subtle curiosities,

As one of that vast multitude,

That on a needle's point have stood:

Weighs right and wrong, and true and false,

Upon as nice and subtle scales,

As those that turn upon a plane

With the hundredth part of half a grain;

And still the subtler they move,

The sooner false and useless prove.

So man, that thinks to force and strain

Beyond its natural sphere his brain;

In vain torments it on the rack;

And, for improving, sets it back;

Is ignorant of his own extent,

And that to which his aims are bent;

Is lost in both, and breaks his blade

Upon the anvil, where 't was made;

For, as abortions cost more pain

Than vig'rous births, so all the vain

And weak productions of man's wit,

That aim at purposes unfit,

Require more drudgery, and worse

Than those of strong and lively force."





The satire that follows is, what the author calls, in long verse, and is upon the licentious age of Charles the Second, contrasted with the puritanical one that preceded it. In this satire, which is the sequel of the former, we have the following masterly lines:—

"For those, who heretofore sought private holes,

Securely in the dark to damn their souls,

Wore vizards of hypocrisy, to steal

And slink away, in masquerade, to hell;

Now bring their crimes into the open sun,

For all mankind to gaze their worst upon,

As eagles try their young against its rays,

To prove, if they 're of generous breed, or base;

Call heaven and earth to witness, how they 've aim'd

With all their utmost vigour to be damn'd."



Speaking of example—

"Example, that imperious dictator

Of all that's good, or bad to human nature;

By which the world's corrupted, and reclaim'd.

Hopes to be sav'd, and studies to be damn'd;

That reconciles all contrarieties,

Makes wisdom foolishness, and folly wise."



Then follows a satire upon gaming.

The satire that follows is, we dare say, addressed to Sir William Davenant,1 whose name our editor has been so delicate as to suppress, and is a piece of sterling wit. Speaking of rhyme and sense, he says:—



"I, whom a lewd caprich, (for some great crime

I have committed) has condemn'd to rhyme,



1 Rather Ned Howard. See next note.





With slavish obstinacy vex my brain

To reconcile 'em, but, alas! in vain,

Sometimes I set my wits upon the rack,

And when I would say white the verse says black;



When I would praise an author, the untoward

Damn'd sense, says Virgil, but the rhyme ."'



Speaking of the plague of rhyme, Mr. Pope has nothing in all his works more spirited and musical than the following lines:—

"Without this plague, I freely might have spent

My happy days with leisure and content;

Had nothing in the world to do, or think,

Like a fat priest, but whore, and eat, and drink;

Had past my time as pleasantly away,

Slept all the night, and loiter'd all the day.

My soul, that's free from care, and fear, and hope,

Knows how to make her own ambition stoop."



He concludes the epistle with the following lines:—

"Thou then, that see'st how ill I spend my time,

Teach me, for pity, how to make a rhyme;

And, if the instructions chance to prove in vain,

Teach how ne'er to write again."



The next poem that follows, entitled Repartees between Cat and Puss, at a Cater-wauling in the Modern Heroic Way, is levelled at the rhyme-plays of Dryden, (for we cannot think with Mr. Thyer, that Butler could throw his eye so low as upon Settle) and some other writers of otherwise good note; but it is supported with such exquisite humour, and with so just a spirit of ridicule, that it cannot admit of any quotations. Meanwhile, we think, that in this poem we can discover come seeds that were transplanted into The Rehearsal, or from The Rehearsal into it.1



1 Ned Howard. The Hon. Edward Howard, brother of Sir Robert Howard, brother-in-law of Dryden; author of The British Princes: An Heroic Poem, 1669, and of several plays, four of which are in print.





The satire that follows is upon our ridiculous imitation of the French, and is worthy of the author of Hudibras. The next poem is inscribed to the famous Ned Howard; and till now has always been given to Waller, and printed in his works. Then follows a palinody to the same gentleman, in the like vein of wit and humour. The conclusion of the next satire, which is upon drunkenness, is so inimitably fine, and so much in Butler's manner, that we must give it to the reader.



"So Noah, when he anchor'd safe on

The mountain's top, his lofty haven,

And all the passengers he bore,

Were on the new world set ashore,

He made it next his chief design

To plant and propagate a vine,

Which since has overwhelm'd and drown'd

Far greater numbers, on dry ground,

Of wretched mankind, one by one,

Than all the flood before had done."



1 Butler is said to have had a finger in The Rehearsal.





The poem that follows is entitled, A Satire on Marriage; but is, in fact, levelled against adultery. It is but crude, though charged with our author's spirit, as are the three following poems written in Pindaric ode measures; one upon an Hypocritical Non-conformist; the next upon Modern Critics; and the third, To the Happy Memory of the Most Renowned Du Vol, the highwayman. This last had been published in the author's lifetime. We are sorry Mr. Thyer, in a note upon this ode, should have been so illinformed, as to compare the fate of Maclean, the modern highwayman, to that of Du Val, in being beloved and lamented by the English ladies. We can assure him seriously, that the fact is false, and all the stories on that head were mere inventions. By-the-bye, Du Val was remarkably handsome, and Maclean was as remarkably ugly.1

The satire, by way of panegyric on Sir John Denham, and the many severe touches of our author in other parts of his works against that gentleman, must have been founded upon some personal quarrel or disgust, as Mr. Thyer rightly observes. Amongst other things, Sir John is accused of having bought his Cooper's Hill, and of having borrowed The Sophy. But charges of that kind, if not supported by some very strong facts, ought to be discouraged; as they tend to endanger or weaken every author's claim to reputation from his works. Nuptiae demonstrant prolem, is an established maxim with regard to the issue of our bodies; and a man's fathering a production, unless it is clearly proved to be illegitimate, ought to establish his claim to the issue of his brains.1



'"The present age can match this French adventurer with an Irish one of equal fame, the celebrated Mr. Maclean, who came to the same ignoble end, by being a hero in the same way, and was, it is said, no less regretted of the fair sex."—Butler's Remains by Thyer, i. 147; ed. 1759.





But the truth is, there are strong presumptions against the knight in point of plagiarism; for his works are so unequal, that some of them, to make use of Martial's expression to a plagiary, seem to say, Fur es. Butler might have reasons for his charge that we are ignorant of.

Amongst the several poems that follow, which we cannot particularise, there is a satire upon Plagiaries, which is finished, and in Butler's best manner.

We cannot agree with Mr. Thyer's conjecture, that Oliver Cromwell is meant in the ballad that begins, "Draw near, good people, all draw near;"2 for though Mr. Thyer supports his conjecture by a caricature of Cromwell's person, drawn by one of his professed enemies, yet we have a much better authority for believing that his face was far from being of the hideous form and complexion there described. There is an original of Cromwell, by Cooper, extant; and it is attended with a whimsical anecdote which is well known to the virtuosi, and carries its own evidences along with it. For there are evident marks of creases in the canvas! of the painting, and a blue scarf about his armour is unfinished, which is said to have been owing to the usurper's impatience, when he called at Cooper's for the picture; for seeing the head finished, he hastily pulled the piece from the tenter, and clapping it into his pocket, flung into his coach. This painting is conformable to all the accounts of his face that we have from the most impartial hands; and represents it as manly, but somewhat stern, though far from being ugly, far less deformed and hideous, as Butler has painted the subject of this ballad. If we might hazard a conjecture, the poet might allegorically design to satirise some of the committees of Parliament, that sat upon the estates of the king's party, and compounded with their owners. Those committees sat in different parts, not only of the kingdom, but of the city.



1 "A report was spread, that the poem of Cooper's Hill was not his own, but that he had bought it of a vicar for forty prounds. The same attempt was made to rob Addison of Cato, and Pope of his Essay on Criticism."—Johnson, Life of Denham.

1 Page 192.





Amongst the fragments designed by Butler to be inserted in a second part of a satire upon the imperfection and abuse of Human Learning, one of them falls foul of Milton, for leaving the merits of the controversy between him and Salmasius,



■ Cooper was a miniature-painter, and never painted on canvas.





about King Charles's murder, and turning it into a war of words, by accusing Salmasius of writing false Latin. This put us in mind of an epigram of Milton's, beginning—

"What made Salmasius, that French chattering pie,

To aim at English and Hundreda cry!"



*T is pity our author did not complete this design. His fragments, like the pieces of marble got together for rearing a building, are of the most exquisite beauty and workmanship. Amongst others, his description of a pedant is equally just and witty. Of pedantry, he says,—

"For pedantry is but a corn, a wart

Bred in the skin of judgment, sense and art,

A stupefied excrescence, like a wen,

Fed by the peccant humours of learn'd men,

That never grows from natural defects

Of downright and untutor'd intellects;

But from the over-curious and vain

Distempers of an artificial brain."



Next follows a collection of verses, under the title of Miscellaneous Thoughts, which are finely adapted to their subjects, and which had they fallen into the hand of a poetical trader, might have set him up, and as the saying is, "made a man of him for ever." It is extremely hard, if not disagreeable, to give anything as a specimen, where everything is equally so; but, as we must keep up to our plan, we shall give the first that comes to our hand of those detached verses:—





"The worst of rebels never arm

To do their king or country harm;

But draw their swords to do them good,

As doctors cure by letting blood."



"No seared conscience is so fell,

As that, which has been burnt with zeal;

For Christian charity's as well

A great impediment to zeal,

As zeal a pestilent disease

To Christian charity and peace."



"As thistles wear the softest down,

To hide their prickles till they 're grown,

And then declare themselves and tear

Whatever ventures to come near:

So a smooth knave does greater feats

Than one, that idly rails and threats,

And all the mischief, that he meant,

Does like a rattle-snake prevent."



"When princes idly lead about,

Those of their party follow suit,

Till others trump upon their play.

And turn the cards another way."



"What makes all subjects discontent

Against a prince's government,

And princes take as great offence

At subjects' disobedience;

That neither th' other can abide,

But too much reason on each side."



"As when a greedy raven sees

A sheep entangl'd by the fleece,

With hasty cruelty he flies

T' attack him, and pick out his eyes;

So do those vultures use, that keep

Poor pris'ners fast like silly sheep,





"As greedily to prey on all,

That in their rav'nous clutches fall.

For thorns and brambles, that came in,

To wait upon the curse for sin;

And were no part o' th' first creation,

But for revenge a new plantation,

Are yet the fit'st materials

T' enclose the earth with living walls;

So jailers that are most accurst,

Are found most fit in being worst."



Having thus, we hope, given no unsatisfactory account of this curious collection, so far as regards the poetical part of it, we are obliged to defer the prose part, in which Butler will appear with equal, if not superior, advantages to a future opportunity.

[Here, in September, 1759 (viii. 208) the Review recommenced:]—It is a doubt whether the writings of Butler, or the neglect he met with, be the greatest satire on the age in which he lived: certainly, no man was ever possessed of greater talents for ridicule than he; none had a greater fund of original sentiment, none a more thorough detestation of vice, and none a more ungrateful return from society. A modern French writer, who has translated a part of his works, has justly observed, that he has more thoughts than lines, and perhaps an exuberance of sentiment is his greatest defect: indeed, so closely do they follow each other, that the reader has neither time to relish what is past, nor prepare himself for what is to follow; as in other commodities, their value seems to be diminished by their profusion.





Of all our English poets, Butler was reckoned the most modest man: his confusion was such, upon a first introduction, that some men imagined him scarce removed from idiotism; when he warmed, however, in conversation, he then began to shine, and what before was pity in the audience, was now turned to admiration. Characters, however, of this kind, are perhaps not so well qualified as others for commencing authors. Impressed with too great a respect for the judgment of the reader, they imagine his sagacity equal to their own, and avoid repetition or explanation, as a tax upon his patience, or an imputation on his skill. In short, they write as Butler has actually written, pour out thought after thought, leave no interstice in the composition void of sentiment, nor even allow a pause for admiration. Such writing as this, and not the affected diffidence expressed in a preface, is the true characteristic of modesty. Here the writer, as in conversation, says but little, and that to the purpose. Butler's manner is, however, now pretty much worn out of use: most readers now take up books merely to be idle; men of this complexion must be met with smiles, instead of the severity of thoughtfulness. As long as the writer continues to divert, so long will they permit him to instruct them; but if he offers to become too concise for their indolence, he then becomes unintelligible: to what purpose, then, should a writer think deeply, when those whom he addresses will not be at the pains of thinking? In short, this sententious manner of the last age somewhat resembles Gothic architecture, where the eye of the spectator is presented with a number of parts, each highly finished, and separately pretty, but which, however, diminish the effect of the whole.





If we read the histories of those great men who enlightened or adorned mankind, and, at the same time, perished like Butler by neglect, we shall find their misfortunes owing to the warmth of their friendships, or the virulence of their disgust. Thus Dante, Theodore Gaza, and Cassender, were soured by their distresses at last into misanthropy: it was just so with Butler; we find him, through this publication, pursuing his contemporary authors, whom he disliked or despised, either with open or concealed satire; he could not tamely bear to see men carry away all the rewards of admiration, because rich, nor set up as models of politeness, because hung round with titles. Sir John Denham, in particular, has found no quarter; he was one of those who owed most of his reputation to a combination of friends in his favour, and who was as much praised beyond his desert, as his antagonist before us was undervalued. Every wrong disposition of literary honours, Butler seems to have thought as a negative insult upon genius: he opposed the distribution with spirit, was tacitly approved, and left without a reward. How many plants of medicinal virtue do we not find growing among savages unacquainted with their effects!





The writing characters, as the editor remarks, was a kind of wit much in fashion in the beginning of the last century. Bruyere seemed to have led the mode, but, to confess the truth, has not been equalled by any succeeding imitator: he has the happy art of varying his manner; when the bare description of nature begins to disgust, he has recourse to a story, and when that has ceased to surprise, he finds refuge in a bon mot. The characters before us want that entertaining variety, and seem drawn rather after the designs of Theophrastus; and we must do our countryman the justice to own, that his sketches are not inferior to those of the refined Grecian.

His character of a small poet for instance, is as fine a piece of satire and criticism as we have seen united. To give the reader a specimen:—

"A small poet is one that would fain make himself that which nature never meant him; like a fanatic that inspires himself with his own whimsies. He sets up haberdasher of small poetry, with a very small stock, and no credit. He believes it is invention enough to find out other men's wit; and whatsoever he lights upon either in books, or company, he makes bold with as his own. This he puts together so untowardly, that you may perceive his own wit has the rickets, by the swelling disproportion of his joints. Imitation is the whole sum of him; and his vein is but an itch or

VOL. Dt—34





clap, that he has catched of others; and his Same like that of charcoals, that were burnt before: but as he wants judgment to understand what is best, he naturally takes the worst, as being most agreeable to his own talent. You may know his wit not to be nature, 't is so unquiet and troublesome in him: for as those that have money but seldom, are always shaking their pockets when they have it; so does he, when he thinks he has got something, that will make him appear. He is a perpetual talker; and you may know by the freedom of his discourse, that he came lightly by it, as thieves spend freely what they get. He measures other men's wit by their modesty, and his own by his confidence. He makes nothing of writing plays, because he has not wit enough to understand the difficulty. This makes him venture to talk and scribble, as chowses do to play with cunning gamesters, until they are cheated and laughed at. He is always talking of wit, as those that have bad voices are always singing out of tune; and those that cannot play, delight to fumble on instruments. He grows the unwiser by other men's harms; for the worse others write, he finds the more encouragement to do so too. His greediness of praise is so eager, that he swallows any thing that comes in the likeness of it, how notorious and palpable soever, and is as shot-free against any thing that may lessen his good opinion of himself. This renders him incurable, like diseases that grow insensible."

Were such a number of original thoughts in the possession of a German commentator, what folios might not be the result of his speculations! In short, this performance might serve as a commonplace book1 for such as find more difficulty in thinking than expression; a hundred sentiments may be stolen from it, and yet the plagiary be never detected.



1 "I am informed by Mr. Thyer, of Manchester, that excellent editor of this author's Reliques, that he could show something like Hudibras in prose. He has in his possession the commonplace book. in which Butler reposited not such events and precepts as are gathered by reading, but such remarks, similitudes, allusions, assemblages, or inferences, as occasion prompted, or meditation produced, those thoughts that were generated in his own mind, and might be usefully applied to some future purpose. Such is the labour of those who write for immortality !"—Johnson, Life of Butler.





What can be more just than his character of a libeller, whom he describes as one whose whole works treat but of two things, his own malice and the faults of another!

"He is not much concerned whether what he writes be true or false; that's nothing to his purpose, which aims only at filthy and bitter; and therefore his language is, like pictures of the devil, the fouler the better. He robs a man of his good name, not for any good it will do him (for he dares not own it), but merely, as a jackdaw steals money, for his pleasure. His malice has the same success with other men's charity, to be rewarded in private; for all he gets is but his own private satisfaction, and the testimony of an evil conscience; for which, if it be discovered, he suffers the worst kind of martyrdom, and is paid with condign punishment, so that at the best he has but his labour for his pains. He deals with a man as the Spanish Inquisition does with heretics, clothes him in a coat painted with hellish shapes of fiends, and so shows him to the rabble, to render him the more odious. He exposes his wit like a bastard, for the next comer to take up and put out to nurse, which it seldom fails of, so ready is every man to contribute to the infamy of another. He is like the devil that sows tares in the dark, and while a man sleeps, plants weeds among his corn. When he ventures to fall foul on the government or any great persons, if he has not a special care to keep himself, like a conjuror, safe in his circle, he raises a spirit that falls foul on himself, and carries him to limbo; where his neck is clapped up in the hole, out of which it is never released, until he has paid his ears down on the nail for fees. He is in a worse condition than a schoolboy; for when he is discovered, he is whipped for his exercise, whether it be well or ill done; so that he takes a wrong course to show his wit, when his best way to do so is to conceal it; otherwise he shows his folly instead of his wit, and pays dear for the mistake."





At the end of these two volumes, for which the public are so much obliged to the editor, are subjoined thoughts upon various subjects, still superior to anything in the foregoing collection. In these the author's peculiar talent shines conspicuously, since his principal merit consists in the strength and justness of his sentiments, without any peculiar skill in arrangement. Had all his works been published, like those of Mahomet, which, as we are told, were delivered in single sentences, it is probable his fame would have suffered no diminution. To give an example of his talent this way:

"This age will serve to make a very pretty farce for the next; if it have any wit at all to make use of it."

"The preferment of fools and undeserving persons, is not so much an honour to them, as infamy and dishonour to those that raise them; for when a prince confers honour on those that do not deserve it, he throws it away out of his own stock, and leaves himself so much the less, as he parts with to those that want merit to pretend to it; and by that ill husbandry in time leaves himself none at all, to pay those to whom it is due."





"The worst governments are the best, when they light in good hands; and the best the worst, when they fall into bad ones."

"The vices of tyrants run in a circle, and produce one another, begin with luxury and prodigality, which cannot be supplied but by rapine. Rapine produces hate in the people, and that hate fear in the prince; fear, cruelty; cruelty, despair; and despair, destruction."

"It is both the wisest and safest way in the world to keep at a convenient distance with all men. For when men converse too closely, they commonly, like those that meet in crowds, offend one another."

"There is a kind of physiognomy in the title of books, no less than in the faces of men, by which a skilful observer will as well know what to expect from the one as the other."

"Men of the greatest apprehension and aptest geniuses to anything they undertake do not always prove the greatest masters in it: for there is more patience and phlegm required in those that attain to any degree of perfection, than is commonly found in the temper of active and ready wits, that soon tire, and will not hold out; as the swiftest race-horse will not perform a long journey so well as a sturdy dull jade. Hence it is that Virgil, who wanted much of that natural easiness of wit that Ovid had, did nevertheless, with hard labour and long study, arrive at a higher perfection than the other, with all his dexterity of wit, but less industry, could attain to. The same we may observe of Jonson and Shakespeare; for he that is able to think long, and judge well, will be sure to find out better things, than another man can hit upon suddenly, though of more quick and ready parts; which is commonly but chance, and the other art and judgment."

How works of such merit have been so long suppressed as those before us, is indeed somewhat surprising; or how the author himself, in his needy hours, was never induced to turn them to profit, is what we cannot account for: perhaps the rewards of copy-money, as it is called, were not so high then as they are now, and fame might have been the only incentive to publication.





XIV.—MARRIOTT'S HORACE

REPLY TO THE CRITICAL REVIEW

"The Twentieth Epistle of Horace to his Book, modernised by the Author of Female Conduct (thomas Marriott, Esq.). and applied to his own Book, and intended as an Answer to the Remarks on his Book, made by the writer of the Critical Review." 8vo. Owen. Price 6d.

t

IT was once a debate among casuists, which we could wish to see revived, whether the contempt offered to great men in disguise ought justly to be resented by them as injurious. After much reasoning upon the matter, Escobar1 at length determined, that as men they have a right to resent; but as great men they are obliged to forgiveness. This last part of the argument is so applicable to our present purpose, that we cannot avoid urging it in the strongest manner, in expostulating with the great man with whom we are at present unhappily embroiled. We have a right to be forgiven, because we now at last acknowledge the dignity of him from whom (impressed with terror as we are) we ask forgiveness. A few months ago a poem entitled Female Conduct came from the press, published in the usual manner, without one single mark of the author's importance; and we, in our usual manner, found something in it to praise, and something to reprove.1 At this time we knew very little of Mr. Marriott, and, in the sincerity of our hearts, wished his dull, well-meaning efforts, success. Soon, however, it was found, that in talking of him we were all in the wrong box, nor paid him half that deference which he claimed as his due. The pamphlet before us, written in all the fury of resentment, tells us all about him. By this we are informed, but, alas! too late for redress, that Mr. Marriott is tall; that he is rich; that he is thin and lean; that he laughs when the sun shines; and lastly, that he is the very man who took the two Gregories.2 Why could he not have told us all this when he published his first pamphlet? No! he slips it out upon the world in obscurity, and, like Peter the Great, is resolved to quarrel with every creature that does not pay homage to his greasy greatness in disguise. Had he put but half what the present pamphlet contains into the preface of the former, it were easy to have clapped on a pair of prudential spectacles, and read his poetry into rhyme; for he may be convinced that we sooner would have eaten gunpowder, than have meddled with the author who took the two Gregories.



1 A Spanish Jesuit, born at Seville in 1588, and died, while a missionary at Lima, in 1669. His works were printed in twenty-six folio volumes.





1 See Article ii., p. a 76. 3 I am sorry I cannot explain this.





Though the performance was opened with a thorough resolution not to lose our temper upon the perusal, yet we find it so severe, that we kindle as we read. It is all an orange stuffed with cloves: when fatigued with scolding in prose, he has recourse to rhyme, and when he has teased us sufficiently with English verse, he takes up the cudgels in Latin. All are alike to him, back-sword, single falchion, or quarter-staff, he wields them all with equal dexterity, and no favour. Now, he calls us scribblers, anon minor critics, then dull critics, bad-hearted critics. This sure is not polite; yet all this might be borne, but who can be calm when he calls us Bavius? Yes, dear reader, he actually calls us Bavius! Ah, little did we think, that while we censured the writer of Female Conduct, we were only raising the indignation of the author who took the two Gregories.

Yet shall it be left to his own breast, whether he deals candidly with us, or the public. He first writes bad verses, and next he tells the world he does not desire a reputation for poetry. This is very modest either way. Would not any one be induced from such a performance, and with such an invitation, to speak his sentiments without shrinking? In an evil hour we took the author at his word, pitied his performance, and gave him a discharge from Parnassus at his own request; and yet, oh ingratitude! here we have him in a violent passion for our pains. This author is surely a sly one. He invites us to a feast; tells us we are heartily welcome to fall to, and yet is violently angry with us for eating. Does this become the patron of virtue, this become the avowed champion of the fair sex? Does this become the man who has fought, and consequently vanquished, gamesters, Methodists, and Bolingbroke? Oh, vartue, vartue! to what will this degenerate age at length arrive, when the very man who gives a morsel of bread with one hand, picks it from our teeth with the other!





By this time the reader, perhaps, desires to see how our poet treats us in rhyme; and though, by quoting him, we propagate our own disgrace, yet will we be just to him and the public. The Epistle in view is from the author to his own book. Let us suppose him sitting like the man in the primer in his arm-chair, thus addressing the manuscript which he holds between his finger and thumb: "My little book," says he, "you have an eye or a mind to :" but take it in his own words:

"My book, you have an eye to Temple Bar

That you may trim in Owen's shop appear;

That you with gilded ornaments may shine,

Polish'd without, and delicate within.

You hate the close restraint of lock and key,

Which to a modest book would grateful be.

But go from me forewarn'd, this lesson learn,

When gone from me you never can return;'





i "We are assured there is a mistake here, being informed a large bale of this work was sent to Hillingdon for waste paper." O——n Gregory, jun.—Goldsmith. Marriott lived at Hillingdon, in Middlesex.





When this shall happen, I (who in your ear

Instill'd good counsel which you would not hear)

In your distress will scornful laugh at you,

Like him, who down a rock in anger threw

The ass, that would not his commands pursue.

Who 'll strive against his will to save a fool

Whom friendly admonitions can't control?"



The reader at length smokes the champion we have to deal with; he will observe what strength of thought and diction, and what a flow of poetry are here! A piddling reader, it is certain, might object to almost all the rhymes of the above quotation; but the less rhyme the more like blank verse, and all know that Milton wrote without such a restraint: but if any reader is for having the above quotation to be rhyme, he has nothing more to do than to read it poetically. Let key, for instance, be called kee, and then it rhymes with be; and let fool be called fole, and then it answers control in the next line. By this means the poetry, which our author, *no doubt, meant for blank verse, may serve for either. We have here given but a taste of our bard's performance: those who are pleased with it may indulge themselves to satiety, in a publication, which he promises shortly, of several other modernised works of this kind. We shall beg leave, in all friendship only, to offer this unconquered champion the following motto to his future production,

Ktjv fiE tpayrjg em piQav, o/icos Sti xapnocpoprjaa).





XV.—GUICCIARDINI'S HISTORY OF ITALY

"The History of Italy, written in Italian by Francesco Guicciardini, a Nobleman of Florence. Translated into English by the Chevalier Austin Parke Goddard, Knight of the Military Order of St. Stephen." In 10 vols. 8vo.

NOTHING can be more just than the character given of Guicciardini by Lispius, "Inter nostras summus est historicus; inter veteres mediocris:" if compared to modern historians, he will be found superior; if with the ancients, he must be contented with a subordinate situation. It is indeed a little extraordinary why the ancients, particularly the Roman historians, should still remain the uncontested and unrivalled masters of historical excellence. Their experience was then much more confined than ours, since, to their wisdom we can add that of an intervening space of almost two thousand years. The politics of their princes was not so confined, as the law of nations was scarcely attended to; and war, which with us is little more than a treaty written in blood, was with them the removing of empires, and the enslaving of millions; still, however, with

such limited experience, and in countries governed





"Beside yon straggling fence that skirts the way, With blossom'd furze unprofitably gay."

Cbe DeeerteO Wtllaae.





by such rude masters, Sallust and Tacitus wrote their histories, and left their successors models which they may endeavour to imitate; but if their future efforts be not attended with better success, cannot hope to rival.

That, since the revival of learning the Italians have excelled the rest of Europe in history, is a fact so well known, that it hardly deserves to be insisted upon. Barely to mention the names of Machiavelli, Davila, Nani, Muratori, and several others, will serve to silence opposition: the fact is notorious; the reason of their peculiar excellence is not equally so.

Italy is divided into a number of petty states, whose mutual security lies in their mutual jealousy and distrusts. Here then politicians are formed, and states governed in miniature; here a man may, and often has, exerted all the stratagems of war at the head of two hundred men, and exhausted all the chicanery of politics in the government of a petty corporation. This was the soil for an historian; here, as in a map, he perceived the excellence and the inconveniences of every species of polity; could point out, with precision, the ineffective attempts of democracy, or the headlong efforts of mistaken monarchy; this was a field for historical speculation; even he that ran might, if he pleased, be a reader.

In this country Guicciardini was bred, and at the time when its petty states might properly be said to be fermenting into form. He had all the advantages that could conduce to a thorough knowledge, both of the facts he relates, and the personages who were concerned in conducting them. He was at once (what seldom happens to be united in the same person), a scholar, a soldier, and a politician; and employed by his country at different times in all those three capacities, with advantage to it, and with honour to himself. His narrative is manly and grave, and his facts are made, as in a well-written play, to rise from each other. His impartiality appears manifest: even his own country, to which he owed so many obligations, is treated with historical justice, and its enemies treated with so much candour, that the reader can hardly say whether the author was of Florence or Pisa.





These are a part of his excellences; but it must not be concealed what critics have objected against him on the other hand. He is taxed with being tedious and particular; that he now and then indulges reflection, and retards the events, which, in history, should be ever hastening towards the catastrophe. "As for that part of his history," says Montaigne, "which he seems to be most proud of, I mean his digressions and discourses, it must be owned, that some of them have peculiar merit, and are adorned with eloquence and nature; but still he seems in love with them: for, desirous of omitting nothing, and his subject supplying him with more than sufficient matter, he becomes feeble by delay, and his history at length savours of pedantic trifling." Dr. Donne, when talking of the Creation, as delivered by Moses, objects the same faults to our author: "If the history of the beginning of the world," says he, "were written by so prolix an author as Guicciardini, not even the world itself would be able to contain the books written upon its own creation." Yet, notwithstanding the objections of so great men, his history can seem tedious to none but the indolent; and in this class, perhaps, we may rank the two great men now quoted, at least the former confesses himself to be so. There is, through the whole work, especially the first five books, a preparation of incidents, that, instead of being prolix, the reader can scarce lay down the book without an ardent desire of knowing what follows next; and the worst that can be said of his speeches is, that they are fine political harangues, improperly placed.





There is an objection of another nature, which carries more weight, because it unfortunately happens to be true; namely, his representing all the actions of his personages as arising from bad motives. "E fu anche sempre inclinato," says a countryman of his, "a le peggiori, come apare nella sua spessa maledicenza di ciascheduno; la quale appresso alia vulgare malignita gli lia guadagnata estimazion di veridico." He was ever leaning to the worst side of a character, as appears by his giving nobody a good word, merely to appear in the eyes of the vulgar as a speaker of truth. Even the most enthusiastic admirer of Guicciardini must allow that this observation is just, since, in the representation of so many characters, he scarce describes one whose conscience is his motive to action. The persons who figure in his drama are almost all knaves or fools, politic betrayers, or blustering idiots. In short, the history before us may be styled a truly misanthropical performance. To a person inclined to hate the species, what ample matter will it not afford, both for ridicule and for reproach!





We see the history open with the account of a monarch immersed in pleasures, surrounded with flatterers, not only ignorant of the polite arts, but hardly acquainted with the figures of the letters, incapable of discovering merit, or what is as bad, incapable of directing it to its proper sphere. We see such a monarch—for so he represents Charles the Eighth of France—resolved to play the conqueror, and plunder kingdoms. Observe how pointed the ridicule is: imagine this man, with a body as deformed as his intellects were contemptible, of a very short stature, bandylegged, of a puny constitution and detestable visage, equipped like a hero, clothed in complete steel, mounted upon a mettlesome courser, marching into every town at the head of his army, looking fiercely, with his lance on his thigh, and calling upon the obsequious crowd for homage. To make the picture still more poignant, imagine such a figure in love, and acting the gallant! who can forbear smiling at an account like this, unless his mouth be repressed by considering, that the affairs of his fellow-creatures were subjected to the caprice of such a diminutive idiot?





On the other hand, the Italians, whom he came to conquer, are drawn in circumstances even of greater debasement: they meet this army of France without head or conductor, with neither vigour, prudence, nor unanimity; they leave an easy conquest, without striking a blow in defence of their privileges. Yet, let not the reader imagine they were all this time unemployed; they were busily taken up with plots, treaties, politics, and poison. They were too rich or too cowardly, to be soldiers themselves; their armies were therefore composed of mercenaries, who, being a mixture of peasants, people in low life, subjects of different potentates, and entirely dependent on their captains, with whom they agreed for a salary, and in whose power it was to detain or dismiss them, they had neither natural nor acquired parts to act gallantly. "The captains were very seldom the subjects of the prince they served, but had a different interest, and separate views: were full of piques and jealousies; their services not commonly limited to a certain time; and being entirely masters of their own companies, they seldom kept the number they were paid for complete." Such is the description of the Italian soldiery. No wonder, then, the country fell an easy prey to the first invader; for we

VOL. IX—1$





may be assured, that that army will seldom fight well, which has nothing to lose by a defeat.

Yet, notwithstanding the noted' cowardice of such troops, they pretended to more personal bravery than those of any other nation beside. Their condottieri, as an historian contemporary with Guicciardini relates, were a set of the most assuming fellows alive. One called himself Cuthead, another Bloody-bones, a third assumed some other frightful appellation: and yet these fellows would often refuse to be led up to a practicable breach, though guarded only by a few peasants, as timorous as themselves. But let us do them justice; for single combat they were lions, every one of them: cowards in the army, and duellists in peace. Guicciardini relates a combat between thirteen of these Italians and as many Frenchmen, who, as mentioned before, had overrun Italy without opposition. The reader may take the combat in the words of the translator, which will at once serve as a specimen of his language, and the misplaced abilities of the Italian soldiery.

"Upon the neck of these unlucky accidents" (some advantages gained by the Spaniards over the French), "happened another, which mightily checked the forwardness of the French, who had no cause to lay the blame on the malignity of fortune, since the event must be accounted the pure effect of true valour and resolution. The matter of fact was this: a French trumpet that was sent to Barletta, to treat about the ransom of some soldiers taken at Rubos, heard some Italian men-at-arms speak in terms reflecting on his countrymen. Of this he made a report at his return to the camp, which occasioned an answer to the Italians, and both parties were so heated as to kindle a general resentment, which had no way to vent itself; till it was at length agreed that, for the honour of their respective nations, thirteen French men-at-arms should enter the lists with as many Italians, in an open secure place, and combat till the victory was decided.





"Accordingly there was a plain space of ground appointed, between Barletta, Andria, and Quadrata, to which the champions were conducted by a set number of their comrades; and for further security against ambuscades, each of the generals, with the greater part of his army, accompanied them half-way, animating them, and charging them that, as men selected from the whole army, they should be sure to answer, both in heart and hand, the expectations conceived of them, which ran so high, that in their hands, and in their valour, the honour of such noble nations was, by common consent, entrusted. The French viceroy animated his men, by reminding them, that those they saw before them were the very same Italians who had trembled at the name of the French, and had always taken care to get out of their way, without giving them an opportunity of exercising their valour. How often had they traversed their country, from the Alps to the utmost part of Italy; that their adversaries had not acquired new spirits or vigour, nor were inspired with a fresh generosity of soul; but being in the pay of the Spaniards, and under their command, they had not the power to contradict the will of their masters, who were accustomed not to encounter their enemies with plain valour and open force, but to circumvent them by wiles and stratagems, and now intended to be idle spectators of the dangers of others: but, as soon as these Italians shall be brought into the field, and confronted with the arms and fierce looks of those who have always beaten them, their usual fright will return, and either they will have no heart to fight at all, or else will fight under such





fear as to make them an easy prey; the lofty speeches and vain bravadoes of the Spaniards being but a poor foundation for raising the spirits, and a very frail buckler against pointed steel, and the fury of the conqueror.

"On the other side, Gonsalvo was heartening and stimulating his Italians with equally pungent motives. He recalled to their mind the ancient glory of their nation, and the honours acquired by their arms, which had rendered them masters of the world. It was, said he, in the power of those few brave men, who were not inferior in valour to their ancestors, to make it appear to all the world, that Italy, the conqueress of all nations, had, for a few years past, been overrun by foreign armies for no other reason but the imprudence of its princes, who, prompted by ambition, first fell out among themselves, and then called in foreigners, to enable them to get the better of one another. The French, he told them, had never obtained a victory in Italy by true valour, but under the conduct, or by the arms of the Italians themselves; or by the fury of their artillery, the dread of which, as an instrument of war unknown in Italy, and not the fear of their arms, opened them a passage into the country. But now they had an opportunity given them of fighting with sword and lance, body to body, where each of them had liberty to display his own personal valour, and be a glorious spectacle to the chief Christian nations; and before so great a number of noble persons of their own country, all of them, as well of one side as the other, were extremely desirous that they should get the victory. That they should remember that they were trained under the most famous captains of Italy, continually exercised in arms; and that there was not a single person of their number but had given proofs of his valour in various places, and much to his honour. For them, therefore, it was reserved, either by coming off conquerors to retrieve the honour of the Italian nation, and render its name glorious and formidable, as it had been, not only in the days of their ancestors but even in their own times; or else, if victory was not in the power of such hands as theirs, that there could be no room to hope for better times, but that Italy must for ever remain in a state of perpetual and ignominious servitude. The other officers and private soldiers of both armies were no less solicitous in stimulating their champions, and kindling their courage, charging them to show their bravery, and to behave like themselves, and worthy of the confidence reposed in them, for augmenting, by their own proper valour, the glory and splendour of their nations.





"Thus charged and animated, the champions were conducted into the field, each one full of ardour and in high spirits, where both parties were enclosed within a list, opposite to each other. The signal being given, they ran furiously at each other with their lances, in which encounter, none seeming to have the advantage, they laid their hands to their other weapons with great force and animosity, each one exerting himself in so extraordinary a manner, as to beget in all the spectators a tacit confession, that no soldiers more valiant, nor more worthy to act so glorious a part, could have been selected out of both armies. But when they had combated a good while, and the ground was covered with pieces of armour, and blood had issued out of the wounds given on both sides, and the event was as yet uncertain, all the beholders keeping a profound silence, and being almost under as much anxiety and concern of mind as the combatants themselves, it happened that Guglielmo Albimonte, one of the Italians, was thrown from his horse by a Frenchman, who ran fiercely upon him with his horse to dispatch him; but Francesco Salamone running to assist his companion,fetched a full blow at the Frenchman, who, being intent on the slaughter of Albimonte, was not on his guard, which struck him dead on the spot. After this he and Albimonte, who had recovered himself, with Miale, who had also been wounded and dismounted, fell upon sticking the enemy's horses with long swords, which they had provided for that purpose, and killed several of them; by which means the Frenchmen began to have the worse of the combat, and at last some of the Italians took one, some another of them, till they were all made prisoners.





"The victors were received with joyful acclamations by their comrades, and treated by Gonsalvo, who met them half way, with all the expressions of gladness and respect, congratulating each man in particular, and all in general, as restorers of the Italian honour. They afterwards made their entry into Barletta in a triumphant manner with their prisoners, amidst the sound of drums and trumpets, and the noise of cannon, and accompanied with military shouts and huzzas.—How small (to use the words of our author in another place) is the praise of cutting a figure in tournaments with a heavy lance! and how greatly does it differ from bravery, or from conduct!"

With respect to the present translation, as the gentleman has made an apology for his style in the beginning, we shall not take upon us the invidious task of selecting its faults. Be it sufficient to say, it is better done than could reasonably be expected from a person, a great part of whose life was spent in a foreign country. The Grand Duke of Tuscany, Cosmo the Third, had invited him to Italy, when but a boy, and there he resided for eighteen years. We could wish to encourage every attempt like this, which serves to make Italian learning better known in England, where it is more generally admired than understood.





XVI.—HAWKINS'S MISCELLANIES

"Miscellanies. By William Hawkins,' M.A., Fellow of Pembroke College, Oxford." In Three Volumes. 8vo.

IN this publication Mr. Hawkins appears under the character of a divine, a critic, and a poet; and in his triple capacity we shall beg leave to consider him.

His first tract in divinity is entitled, A Rational Enquiry into the Speculative and Practical Principles of the Christian Religion. A performance not without merit; but the author certainly might have done more, or at least better, had he attempted to do less. In a small tract like this, it was impossible to exhaust the whole subject of divinity, as he has endeavoured to do: it was impossible, in so short a compass, to silence the atheist, the deist of every denomination, the Arian, the Roman Catholic, and all the various sects and opinions among ourselves, which either idleness or ignorance has produced; it was a vain

» Son of the author of the Treatise of the Pleas of the Crown, Poetry Professor at Oxford, rector of Little Casterton, in Rutlandshire; and at his death, in 1801, vicar of Whitchurch, Dorsetshire.





attempt, we say, to confine, in his scanty page, opinions that have already exhausted tomes of undecided controversy. In showing how far reason, unassisted by revelation, can lead us into the nature of Deity and ourselves, he has perhaps given our rational faculties greater sagacity than they merit, as he thinks that reason alone points out the immortality of the soul. His words are, "If man is a being compounded of body and spirit, which we have endeavoured to prove, there is in his nature a principle of existence. A mortal spirit is a contradiction in terms; for the essential difference between body and spirit is, that the latter is not subject to corruption. Without attributing this native principle of incorruption to spirit (if I may so say), we cannot prove the eternity of God, which is asserted by all who admit his existence: for God is not a corporeal being; he therefore exists as a spirit to and from all eternity." Thus he hangs the proof of the eternity of the godhead, a parte post, to speak with the schools, upon the same feeble support that he does that of the soul of man; and yet the one is capable of the strongest demonstration, while the other has scarce the shadow of reason to support it, and is obliged to fly to revelation to silence inquiry. The eternity of the godhead, a parte post, is proved thus: no being can lose its existence but by an act of power superior to its own; but no being has a power superior to the godhead: therefore he must be eternal. On the contrary, the soul of man may survive the body a thousand years; but what argument can> be drawn from reason, that divine power may not then annihilate it? This difficulty ever stuck with the philosophers, nor did their reasonings ever proceed further than to prove the soul a more vivacious principle than the body. The reasoning of Plato on this head was excessively weak; and yet, perhaps, it was all that reason could do. "We see," says he, "different parts of the body after death, have different duration; the sinews last longer than the flesh; the bones still longer, and so forth; why then shall not the soul be of greater duration than either?" Thus spake unassisted reason; but revelation has brought our doubts into certainty, and surely it is taking from the latter to ascribe to reason what is not its due. Were our author's arguments enforced against deists or atheists only, we should heartily join issue; but he has chalked out a narrow path for faith to walk by, and sometimes declaims with heat, we had almost said virulence, against many opinions amongst Christians which are purely theoretical, mere speculations, which should serve as playthings to exercise the indolence of theology, rather than as brands to excite its rancour or reproach.





His next tract is, a review of a book entitled A Free and Candid Examination of the Principles advanced in the Bishop of London'sl Sermons, and in his Discourses on Prophecy; wherein the Commonly Received System, concerning the Nature of the Jewish and Christian Dispensations is Particularly Considered, etc. The Burgosean controversy has not more divided our speculative divines, than the late broached dispute, whether the Jews had any notion of a future state, is likely to do. The Bishop of London, in his Sermons, assumes the affirmative: but he has had many opponents; and now the argument seems kindled up, nor perhaps will be extinguished, till some opinion more new rises, or revives, for awhile to attract the attention. Mr. Hawkins seems to be pretty confident in the advantage of his cause; and this we may venture to say, that he seems to be on the safe side, for he is on the Bishop's; and though he loses his cause, he may gain a vicarage. As for the controversy, so much has been said on both sides, that we must really acknowledge ourselves sceptics in the debate. It is probable, that the Jews were well acquainted with the doctrine of the soul's surviving after death, from its being a received opinion in Egypt, and in several nations round them. But how far this doctrine may be contained in the Old Testament, is what perhaps will never be determined, unacquainted as we are at this period with the strict meaning of the language in which it is written. The whole dispute must turn on the import of some Hebrew words; and who is there now alive capable of being a judge in such a controversy? We can know enough, and believe enough, without being acquainted with a syllable of the matter: we could wish our divines would therefore turn their arms against the common enemy; and while infidelity is at the gate, not waste the time at civil altercation.



1 Dr. Thomas Sherlock.





The second volume contains Poetical Prelections, pronounced in the natural philosophy school, in the University of Oxford, of which seminary Mr. Hawkins was a member, and constituted Professor of Poetry there. His design and method in this course of lectures are thus explained by himself:—

"De ratione vero, qua in sequentibus praelectionibus usurus sum, quae praefanda censui, quam paucissimis accipite. Ea igitur, etc."—"The method which I shall pursue in the following course of lectures, is briefly as follows: All I have had to say upon dramatic poetry, I have rather treated in a series of critical dissertations than reduced to a system, partly because I chose to deviate from the barren track, and partly because I know that those who are fond of poetry are seldom fond of having things treated with a philosophical dryness. One general rule is sufficient to regulate all poetry—a rule borrowed from nature, of which the poet is always an imitator; let there be nothing monstrous. If we strictly attend to this, it will be quite unnecessary to perplex you and myself with technical terms, and critical minutia; a subject which can neither inform the learner, nor please those who are acquainted with poetry. I am not ignorant that the drama is confined by the strictest laws; but I hope soon to be able to show, that we not only may sometimes infringe upon those laws, but that we even ought to do it, if we would ease the reader, and adhere to nature strictly. To be entirely explicit, those who follow the letter of the law must be often guilty of injustice, and sometimes commit faults more unnatural and unreasonable than those from which they profess to deter us.





"I am in the meantime perfectly sensible how invidious a task it must be to impugn doctrines established by time, and by Aristotle; a name which critics of a lesser order implicitly admire, a man whose orders they are ever ready to obey. They, however, who teach others are not to refute, but determine, and ever to have that maxim of Horace in their eye:—

'Nullius addictus jurare in verba magistri.'

"It is not the authority of any precept we are to esteem, but the reasons on which it is established. The authority of Aristotle, I will allow, justly stands in the highest among us of Oxford, yet it would be absurd to pay it upon all occasions an implicit obedience. There is no reason why he who is justly accused with error in other sciences, should be our only guide in poetry. However, if any should accuse me of audaciousness or arrogance, that resting upon my own authority alone, of which no man has a meaner opinion, I impugn the doctrines of critics of established reputation, let them know that vanity has been by no means my motive. I desire no fame for being the parent of new opinions; I only aim at defending our great countryman, Shakespeare, and to show that what have been imputed to him as faults, are often the results of art and invention."

This pretty well serves to give a general idea of Mr. Hawkins's design; which he has treated with some learning, though but little conviction. The rules of the drama were not invented by Aristotle, but the Greek tragedians; those rules they adopted, because nature and the rules were the same; and in this whole performance we cannot see an objection to them, but that of Shakespeare, and other English writers wrote well without being acquainted with them.





But let us hasten to this third volume, where, stripped of his gown, and descended from the chair of Aristarchus, Mr. Hawkins endeavours to put his own precepts into practice, and enters the lists of fame, divested of those adventitious ornaments, sometimes the rewards of genius but not unfrequently found the badges of stupidity.

The first performance here is called The Thimble; an heroic-comical poem in five cantos, illustrated with notes critical and explanatory by Scriblerus Secondus. There is nothing in the whole province of writing more difficult to attain than humour: the poet in other subjects walks a broad road, but here he seems to tread along a line, and the slightest deviation undoes him. Humour once missed, most effectually turns the author ridiculous; all the satire he would fondly level at others, is now pointed against himself; and as the tyrant of a tragedy, he is obliged to swallow the poison prepared for another. A disappointed humourist is indeed a most deplorable figure; somewhat like blockheads of vivacity in company, ever grinning without a jest. The whole plot of these five cantos is no more than a young lady happening to prick her finger with a needle. The gods and goddesses were resolved to make a thimble to prevent such disasters for the future. Vulcan accordingly made one, and Venus gave it to the lady's lover, and he brought it to his mistress, and so they were resolved to be married. This is a plot of genuine antique simplicity: however, it is illustrated with a match of shuttlecock and blind-man's buff by way of episode.





The next is Henry and Rosamond, a tragedy which Mr. Garrick refused, because it was more like a poem than a play. Shakespeare, our author's favourite, seems principally imitated; the antiquated turn of his diction being sometimes erroneously preserved.

Then follows The Siege of Aleppo,1 a tragedy refused at both houses,1 like the former. This is, by many degrees, the best of Mr. Hawkins's productions, and is a work that really deserves applause; and it will be saying not much, not indeed enough, in its favour to aver, that several worse pieces have been of late accepted by the managers, and exhibited with success. To quote from it would be to injure the author, since its greatest merit lies in the opposition of character, the variety of the distress, and the unexpected catastrophe. As in the former play, so here, he seems to have Shakespeare ever in his eye. There are many works more of our author in this publication, in all which we find something to praise. Be it enough to say in general, that Mr. Hawkins was not born a poet, or that imitation has spoiled him.



1 9th April, 1778 (at Sir Joshua's). Boswell:—"It is very easy for you, Mr. Garrick, to talk to an author as you talked to Elphinston; you, who have been so long the manager of a theatre, rejecting the plays of poor authors. You are an old judge, who has often pronounced sentence of death. You are a practised surgeon, who have often amputated limbs; and though this may have been for the good of your patients, they cannot like you. Those who have undergone a dreadful operation, are not very fond of seeing the operator again." Garrick :—"Yes, I know enough of that. There was a reverend gentleman (Mr. Hawkins), who wrote a tragedy, the Siege of something, which I refused." Harris:—"So the siege was raised!" Johnson:—"Ay, he came to me and complained; and told me, that Garrick said his play was wrong in the concoction. Now, what is the concoction of a play!"—(Here Garrick started, and twisted himself, and seemed sorely vexed; for Johnson told me, he believed the story was true.) Garrick:—"I—I—I—said, first concoction." Johnson (smiling):—"Well, he left out first. And Rich, he said, refused him in false English: he could show it under his hand." Garrick:—"He wrote to me in violent wrath, for having refused his play: 'Sir, this is growing a very serious and terrible affair. I am resolved to publish my play. I will appeal to the world; and how will your judgment appear?' I answered, 'Sir, notwithstanding all the seriousness, and all the terrors, I have no objection to your publishing your play; and, as you live at a great distance (Devonshire, I believe), if you will send it to me





I will convey it to the press.' I never heard more of it 1 ha! ha! ha I" —Boswell, by Croker, p. 583. Hawkins in a letter to Garrick taxes him with having rejected his Siege of Aleppo "because it was 'wrong in the first concoction,' as you said, or on some such general consideration."—Garrick Correspondence, ii. 6. 1 Drury Lane and Covent Garden.





XVII.—MODERN NOVELS

"Jemima and Louisa; in which is contained several remarkable Incidents relating to Two Ladies of distinguished Families and Fortunes. In a series of Letters, by a Lady." iamo.

THE female muse, it must be owned, has of late been tolerably fruitful. Novels written by ladies, poems, morality, essays, and letters, all written by ladies, show that this beautiful sex are resolved to be, one way or other, the joyful mothers of children. Happy it is, that the same conveyance which brings an heir to a family, shall at the same time produce a book to mend his manners, or to teach him to make love, when ripe for the occasion. Yet, let not the ladies carry off all the glory of the late productions ascribed to them: it is plain by the style, and a nameless somewhat in the manner, that pretty fellows, coffee-critics, and dirty-shirted dunces, have sometimes a share in the achievement. We have detected so many of these impostors already, that for the future it is resolved to look upon every publication that shall be ascribed to a lady, as the work of one of this amphibious fraternity. Thus by wholesome severity, many a fair creature may be prevented from writing, that cannot spell; and many a blockhead may be deterred from commencing author, that never thought. The plan of the work is as follows:—





Two misses, just taken home from the boardingschool, are prodigious great friends, and so they tell each other their secrets by way of letter. It cannot be expected, and truly it would be out of nature, to suppose persons so young, and so very pretty, capable of writing proper English; so they transgress in this particular almost in every sentence, you was, and they is, being frequent expressions between them. In the first letter, Miss Jemima Courtly, or Mima, for shortness' sake, lets her old and intimate friend know that her mother died when she was eight years old; that she had one brother and one sister; with several other secrets of this kind, all delivered in the confidence of friendship.

In the progress of this correspondence we find she has been taken home for carrying on an intrigue with Horatio, a gentleman of the neighbourhood, and by means of her sister's insinuations, for she happens to be her enemy, confined to her chamber, her father at the same time making an express prohibition against her writing loveletters for the future. This command Miss Mima breaks, and of consequence is turned out of doors; so up she gets behind a servant without a pillion, and is set down at Mrs. Weller's house, the mother

Vol. ix—>6





of her friend Miss Fanny. Here then we shall leave, or rather forget her; only observing that she is happily married, as we are told in a few words towards the conclusion.

We are next served up with the history of Miss Louisa Blyden, a story no way connected with the former. Louisa is going to be married to Mr. Evanion; the nuptials, however, are interrupted by the death of Louisa's father, and at last broke off by means of a sharper, who pretends to be Miss's uncle, and takes her concerns under his direction. What need we tell as how the young lovier runs mad, Miss is spirited away into France; she at last returns; the sharper and his accomplices hang or drown themselves, her lover dies, and she—oh tragical! keeps her chamber? However, to console us for this calamity, there are two or three other very good matches struck up; a great deal of money, a great deal of beauty, a world of love, and days and nights as happy as heart could desire; the old butt-end of a modern romance.





XVIII.—HAWKINS'S REPLY TO THE

CRITICAL REVIEW, Etc.



"A Review of the Works of the Rev. W. Hawkins, late Professor of

Poetry in the University of Oxford: And of the Remarks made on

the same in the Critical Review for August, and in the Monthly

Review for September, 1759. In a Letter to the Author of both

Reviews."



THE present Review of the Works of Mr. Hawkins is supposed to be written by a friend; but when we come to examine the performance, this friend appears pretty plainly to be no other than Mr. Hawkins himself. It seems his works, in three volumes, had passed in review before us, in our critical capacity, some months ago, and we thought them but indifferent: paraded it a second time before the profound authors of the Monthly Review, and they thought them indifferent; they solicited the public attention in the usual methods of publication, and if we may judge by the success, there also they were thought but indifferent: so many witnesses in one story would probably have convinced any reasonable being of his own mediocrity. Mr. Hawkins,

however, was not to be convinced; he has undertaken to review his own writings; has published a comment that almost nobody will read, upon writings that almost nobody has read; has surveyed himself on all sides, and thinks himself on every side invulnerable. "O te Bolane, cerebri felicem fecerunt Divi!"





A man who reviews his own works is indeed a curiosity, and the reader is undoubtedly impatient to hear in what manner he treats himself. Our reviewer, therefore, sets off with informing us, that "he is apt to believe the candid and judicious reader will acknowledge his style, whether Latin or English, in verse or in prose, to be pure, easy, fluent, manly, and eloquent. It is sometimes, perhaps, too voluble and diffusive; but, I think, seldom so as to be perplexed and unintelligible. In short, I presume, in this respect, Mr. Hawkins's Miscellanies are fit to be upon the same shelves with the works of the most celebrated modern writers, either in our own or the Latin tongue. It will be but justice to our author to add, that he sufficiently sustains the compound character both of a verse and prose writer; the merits of each are as distinct as may be; nor does the one seem to be a whit the worse for the other." The reader now sees the great difference between us and this gentleman: he is for putting his own works upon the same shelf with Milton and Shakespeare, and we are for allowing him an inferior situation; he would have the same reader that commends Addison's delicacy, to talk with raptures of the purity of Hawkins; and he who praises The Rape of the Lock, to speak with equal feelings of that richest of all poems, Mr. Hawkins's Thimble.





But we, alas! cannot speak of Mr. Hawkins with the same unrestrained share of panegyric that he speaks of himself; and though we despise the crowd upon other occasions, yet we must join them in this instance, and leave this gentleman to his self-applauding singularity. We allowed him, indeed, some small share of merit in a former article; and this is most certain, that whatever he may say of our partiality, or our malevolence, the manner in which his works were treated then betrayed neither; but bore a greater share of indulgence than our duty to the public should, in strict justice, have permitted. In whatever pieces we were good-natured enough to make no objections, this gentleman has imagined we had nothing to object: we passed over the merits of his style in silence, and he has thought proper to regard this as a symptom of malevolence, which was in reality the strongest instance of our moderation.

After he has sufficiently bedunced us through several pages, he at last has the tenderness to answer to our particular objections, and that with sufficient perplexity. In this dispute, he at least has the advantage of being as tedious as he thinks proper; because he seems no way solicitous about trespassing on the reader's patience. We must, on the other hand, study conciseness, because we write in order to be read.





The first material objection which he endeavours to answer, is that made to his endeavouring to prove by reason alone, the immortality of the soul. We thought, at the time we objected, and still think, that we are obliged to revelation alone for any evidence in this matter; and that those philosophers, who were guided only by reason, vainly endeavoured to prove that immortality which it is our duty to believe. Plato, who is said to have dogmatised more on this than any other subject (as we before observed), brought but very superficial arguments to prove a truth of so great importance to society: we instanced one; namely, that of the different duration of the different parts of the body, and thought this the most plausible argument he makes use of. Mr. Hawkins is of a different opinion; but unfortunately does not give any reasons, nor any quotations from Plato, to prove his sentiments, but says any schoolboy may do it. Almost all Plato's reasoning upon this subject depends upon two data, that of the soul's pre-existing before the body, and that of abstract existences, which he calls ideas; which commentators have pretended to explain a hundred different ways: if we grant him either of these, it is certain his proofs are sufficiently cogent; but it is hoped no Christian divine will grant him the first; and the latter, what is it but begging the question?

But Mr. Hawkins thinks it not only apparent from reason, but as demonstrable as the immortality of God himself; and yet brings no proof of the immortality of God, but that of spirit not being subject to corruption. Whether spirit is subject to corruption or no, is the whole question in debate; and surely it cannot be called an argument, roundly to assert that it is or it is not; and yet such an argument is all that Mr. Hawkins has thought proper to use. We offered a better; namely, the omnipotence of the Godhead; and if he does not think proper to make use of it, that is his fault, not ours.





Our self-reviewer goes on to praise himself where we thought him only tolerable; to quote from himself where he thinks it will redound to his reputation: a man is, indeed, hard put to it for praise, and must have but indifferent neighbours, who is thus obliged to commend himself. But why has Mr Hawkins taken so much pains to accuse us of envy and malevolence? Was it his fame as a writer that we wanted to remove, in order to make way for our own? That could hardly have been the case with respect to the author of tragedies, that were all either damned or refused, or poems that were entirely forgotten! We might have pitied him indeed, but we surely could not envy. Perhaps our motive to malevolence might have been, that Mr. Hawkins stood between us and a good living: we can solemnly assure him we are quite contented with our present situation in the church, are quite happy in a wife and forty pounds a year,1 nor have the least ambition for pluralities. The truth is, Mr. Hawkins, like every disappointed author, was angry, and knew none but us to wreak his vengeance upon: he somewhat resembles the serjeant in the comedy, who, whenever insulted by his superior officers, went home to beat his wife.





1 "It will also throw a light upon many parts of it, when the reader understands that it is addressed to a man, who despising fame and fortune, has retired early to happiness and obscurity, with an income of forty pounds a year."—Goldsmith, Dedication of The Traveller.

"A man he was to all the country dear,

And passing rich with forty pounds a year."



Goldsmith, The Deserted Village.





XIX.—DUNKIN'S EPISTLE TO LORD

CHESTERFIELD



"An Epistle to the Right Honourable Philip, Earl of Chesterfield, to which is added An Eclogue. By William Dunkin, D.D."' 8vo.

IN this publication Dr. Dunkin appears at once excessively merry, and extremely sorrowful. His Epistle to the Earl of Chesterfield is most familiarly good-humoured; his eclogue, or Lawson's Obsequies,2 is mournful to the last degree. The epistle may be considered a smart prologue to a deep tragedy, or a jig before an adagio, or (to run into his own manner) a plate of pickles before a shoulder of mutton. The death of his friend seems no way to have abated his festivity; and though he weeps for Lawson in poetry, he laughs with his Lordship in prose: in short, were we to judge of the writer by this production, we would give him the same appellation which Chapelain gave to Manage, "the poet with the double face."



'In early life Dunkin attracted the attention of Dean Swift, who in a letter to his old friend Alderman Barber (Works, ed. Scott, jrix., 117), describes him as a "gentleman of much wit, and the best English, as well as Latin poet in Ireland." The Earl of Chesterfield, when he held the Government of Ireland, gave him the school of Enniskilling. He died in 1765. His Poetical Works, in two volumes quarto, were published in 1774.

1 Dr. John Lawson, author of Lectures concerning Oratory, delivered at Trinity College, Dublin. Died 1759.





His Epistle to the Earl of Chesterfield begins thus: "My lord, your fast friend, trusty correspondent, and faithful ally, the prince of printers, archbibliopolist, intelligencer-general, and general advertiser of the kingdom of Ireland, having lately discovered, that I had not for many months addressed your lordship by letter, or otherwise, with a very grave face and composed countenance, but a fervour and tartness of style, unwont to flow from the dispassionate tongue of his most serene highness, called me roundly to task, and expressed his august indignation and royal resentment. 'What,' said he, 'was it for this, that we brought thy labours from the darkness of thy closet, into the light of our shop, and clothed thy naked and neglected name with legible respect, and titular dignity? What apartment from the base to the summit of our Palladian palace hath not been open for thy reception, and furnished for thy residence? When was our oval table unspread for thy repast; and when was our big-bellied bottle withheld from thy lips? Hast thou not sat down in our presence, even on our right hand, while poets have stood in waiting? And have we not in familiar-wise conversed with thee, while we have only nodded unto critics?'"

This serene highness, this we, is Mr. Faulkner, the printer,1 who, if he speaks in this manner, must be no doubt an excessively facetious humorous companion, and well worthy not only the acquaintance of the poet and his lordship, but also of the public. A great part of the epistle is taken up with this speech; which, whenever the writer takes up the conversation himself, is every whit as humorous as the other. Hear him:





"But, alas! how will the sanguine hopes and expectations of the parties premised be rendered totally null and void, when the bellowing tribe of meagre bards and lank critics, like Pharaoh's ill-favoured and lean-fleshed kine, eat up my best-featured and fairest offspring! What can be wrought and finished with nicer art and ingenuity, than Arachne's lawn, suspended to the sublime ceiling of a spacious hall, as it were beyond the reach of inferior accidents? When, lo! some vile, unthrifty chamber-maid cometh with her anti-Christian Pope's-head brush, and sweepeth down the weaver and his web together.

"Such, I fear, will become the downfall and undoing of these my lofty lucubrations, disconcerted and broken by the callous and clumsy hands of witlings and word-catchers, who from damned poetry have turned their heads to foul criticism, as folks convert their cast coach-horses to dungcarts.

"Little will it avail me, that, independent of external aid, I have spun the materials out of my own brains, and laboured whole days and nights in bringing the work to perfection, when the delicate and tender texture, instead of standing the test, will not even abide the touch.

1 George Faulkner, designated by Swift, "the prince of Dublin printers." He rose to eminence chiefly under Swift's patronage, and was the first who gave to the world a collected edition of his works. Died 1775.





"The dung-carts and their criticisms may pass well enough together; and, lest they should object against this comparison of myself to an insect, as mean and creeping, let them hear what Pliny saith of such industrious and neat spinsters: 'Aranearum genus erudita operatione conspicuum.' The family of spiders are very notable for their curious housewifery. But in case they should spare the spider, they will arraign the retailer of this homely similitude for an arrant plagiary: to quash which indictment I can offer no fairer plea than an honest confession, that I borrowed the thought, with very little variation, from a voluminous Latin and English poem, written purely for the benefit of their fraternity many years ago, although not yet published. It is dedicated to your lordship, and must, I believe, pass for mine, till they can lay it before the door of a better father.

"Here would I willingly halt, and spread a veil over the poet and spider, but murder and truth will at some odd time or other ebulliate. Much it irketh me to conceive any thing that might cast the least unsavoury note of aspersion on any member of our society. But what I am going to mention is rather a matter of compassion and pity, than reproach or shame; a distemper which frequently seizes the body poetical with sudden fits and starts, and, what is most extraordinary, the violence of the paroxysm, instead of heating, chills the whole mass of blood, ties the tongue, and sinks the spirits. Some naturalists have ascribed it to the malign influence of a planet, and look upon it as the consequent and concomitant effect of a versifying itch: but I should rather attribute it to mere sublunary causes; and such accidents will happen, while there are such unclassical things upon earth, as paltry debts, insolent writs, and rude bailiffs; for, although poets may take great licenses, yet, alas! Grub Street is no place of privilege."

Who could have thought, to speak sincerely, that such indifferent prose should come from the man who is author of many pretty poetical pieces, among which, this of Lawson's Obsequies, is not the worst; The following lines are not despicable;





"But should he fall? and shall the mighty muse

The tuneful tribute of her grief refuse?

Refuse to him her memorable tears

With whom she sported in his tender years?

While, yet unconscious of himself he stray'd,

Unsought, unnoticed, through the pensive shade;

With wealth unfavour'd, to no lordly line

Ally'd, but Pallas, and the sacred Nine,

I cull'd him out from all the sable crowd

Of Alma's tribes, indignant of the proud,

The pert, the vain, preferr'd his humble name,

And woo'd his friendship with a pious flame.

"We laugh'd at fops, fantastically gay,

The pomp of pride, and impotence of sway;

At scribblers vile, who blurr'd the blacken'd page

With fustian phrensy, for poetic rage;

We laugh'd with Johnson, of ungenerous heart,

Who well could act the candid critic's part;

From fruitful fancy start the happy hint,

Surprising, quick as flashes from a flint;

Maturely plan the regular design,

Mix wit with ease, and point the glowing line."



There runs, however, through the poem an affectation, which it is not easy to excuse, as when the poet has "manful eloquence" for "manly eloquence," the " museful powers " for " the muses": such errors, though trifling, give an air of vanity to the whole. The man who is bred at a distance from the centre of learning and politeness, must have a great deal of modesty or understanding, who does not give a loose to some vanities which are apt to render him ridiculous everywhere but at home. Bred among men of talents inferior to himself, he is too apt to assume the lead, as well from the press as in conversation, and to overrate his own abilities. His oddities among his friends are only regarded as the excrescences of a superior genius; among those who live beyond the sphere of his importance, they are considered as instances of folly or ignorance.1 There is scarcely a trifling city or university in Europe which has not its great men; characters, who are taught by adulation to fancy themselves figuring in the republic of letters, and leaving monuments of their merit to remote posterity. If there should happen to be two of this character in the same city, the compliments they naturally bestow on each other are pleasant enough: they attempt to raise each other's reputation by mutual flattery, and establish their little dominion within the circle of all their acquaintance.





A traveller passing through the city of Burgos in Spain, was desirious of knowing who were their most learned men, and applied to one of the inhabitants for information. "What!" replied the Spaniard, who happened to be a scholar, "have you never heard of the admirable Brandellius, or the ingenious Mogusius? one the eye and the other the heart of our university, known all over the world?" "Never," cries the traveller; "but pray inform me what Brandellius is particularly remarkable for?" "You must be very little acquainted in the republic of letters," says the other, "to ask such a question. Brandellius has written a most sublime panegyric on Mogusius." "And, prithee, what has Mogusius done to deserve so great a favour?" "He has written an excellent poem in praise of Brandellius." "Well! and what does the public, I mean those who are out of the university, say of those mutual compliments?" "The public are a parcel of blockheads, and all blockheads are critics, and all critics are spiders, and spiders are a set of reptiles that all the world despises."



'Goldsmith is here unintentionally glancing at his own oddities, and the way they were afterwards thought of by friends, and by men like Walpole and Beauclerk.





END OF VOLUME IX





About this Book - From Google

This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project to make the world's books discoverable online. It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume may appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the publisher to a library and finally to you.

Google Book Search has digitized millions of physical books and made them available online at the Google Books web site. The digitization at the most basic level is based on page images of the physical books. To make this book available as an ePub formated file we have taken those page images and extracted the text using Optical Character Recognition (or OCR for short) technology. The extraction of text from page images is a difficult engineering task. Smudges on the physical books' pages, fancy fonts, old fonts, torn pages, etc. can all lead to errors in the extracted text. Imperfect OCR is only the first challenge in the ultimate goal of moving from collections of page images to extracted-text based books. Our computer algorithms also have to automatically determine the structure of the book (what are the headers and footers, where images are placed, whether text is verse or prose, and so forth). Getting this right allows us to render the book in a way that follows the format of the original book.

Despite our best efforts you may see spelling mistakes, garbage characters, extraneous images, or missing pages in this book. Based on our estimates, these errors should not prevent you from enjoying the content of the book. The technical challenges of automatically constructing a perfect book are daunting, but we continue to make enhancements to our OCR and book structure extraction technologies.

We hope you'll enjoy these books as much as we do.

Usage guidelines

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying.

We also ask that you:

Make non-commercial use of the files: We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for personal, non-commercial purposes.

Refrain from automated querying: Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help.

Maintain attribution: The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it.

Keep it legal: Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe.



About Google Book Search

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences.





